@(#)$Id: OLDNEWS.txt,v 1.9 2008/04/18 18:34:49 leavens Exp $

                        OLD NEWS.txt file for JML

New with release 5.5 (January 9, 2008)

   major improvements:

     - Various changes enable the new assertion semantics.  This
       semantics requires that users write "protective" specifications,
       in that the runtime checker will no longer attempt to mask
       exceptions that occur during assertion evaluation, but will
       instead propagate those out to the calling program. 
       Thus an assertion holds if and only if the assertion expression
       evaluates successfully (no exceptions are raised) and it is true.
       This new semantics has been turned on by default (to recover to
       old semantics use jmlc command line option -O). This fixes bug
       #1745623.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin and Frederic Rioux. 

     - Added the "refining" statement discussed in the jmlspecs-interest
       mailing list and a new keyword "extract" from the paper by
       Shaner, Leavens and Naumann (to appear in OOPSLA 2007).  This
       updated the checker and documents.  Thanks to Steve Shaner.

   minor improvements:

     - Fix to Bug #1746834, so that with the new RAC semantics
       the \min, \max, and \num_of quantifiers are now executable when
       they have a recognizable range.  Thanks to Frederic Rioux. 

     - Updates to enable Universe runtime checks in JMLRAC.
       Now the JMLRAC compiles the intermediate program with enabled
       Universe runtime checks. Thanks to Werner Dietl.

     - Added specification for the Universe runtime checks that allows
       one to use the Universe runtime checks together with the
       non-null type system.  Thanks to Werner Dietl.

     - Added specifications for several classes in java.awt, and
       java.awt.color.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin. 

     - Various small corrections to JDK specification, in particular
       with respect to nullity annotations.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - Put universe type system annotations in JML's specification for
       System.arraycopy, which allows copying to rep arrays from peer
       arrays.  Thanks to Werner Dietl.

     - Three corrections to the JML Reference Manual's grammar, thanks to
       Patrice Chalin and David Cok.

     - Noted that instance can be applied to invariants and other
       class-level annotations in the annotations appendix of the JML
       Reference Manual.  Thanks to Kristina Boysen. 

     - Some clarifications to the paper "JML: a Notation for Detailed
       Design", thanks to Faraz Hussain.

     - Fix to the specification of
       org.jmlspecs.samples.jmlkluwer.PriorityQueue.  Thanks to
       Patrice Chalin.

     - Fix to JML's NaturalNumber class, solving bug 1745382. 
       NaturalNumbers were being compared to BigIntegers, hence a
       compareTo(BigInteger) was added.  Without it compareTo(Object)
       was used, which gave a class cast exception.

     - Fixes to bug #1745635 for org/jmlspecs/samples in the
       list examples, PriorityQueue, and Digraph, Accounts, etc.
       Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - The documents and release procedures have been updated to
       reflect Gary's new location at UCF in Orlando, Florida.

     - The short-curcuit nature of the ==> and <== operators was
       clarified in the Reference Manual.  Plus various typo
       corrections.  Thanks to David Cok.

     - Various additions and corrections to the Reference Manual,
       including work on the chapters about refinement and redundancy.
       Thanks to Leo Freitas and Bertrand Meyer for questions that
       prompted these updates.

   incompatible changes:

     - The new assertion semantics is incompatible with the old
       underspecified total functions approach, to some extent.
       To recover to old semantics use the command line option -O on jmlc.

New with release 5.4 (February 8, 2007)

   major improvements:

     - The tools can be run and installed under Java 1.5 (Java 5),
       although the tools only parse and type check Java 1.4 source
       correctly and jmldoc does not work under Java 1.5.
       Thanks to Ovidio Mallo (and Werner Dietl).  This solves
       MultiJava bug 1092120.

     - Improved support for Java 5 generics, especially addition
       of wildcards and raw types. Thanks to Ovidio Mallo (and Werner Dietl).

     - Fixed problem with parsing of nullity modifiers in
       casts. Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - The --nonnulltypes and -j options support a new feature for
       "non null types".  This includes a static analysis that
       propagates nullity information.  Thanks to Perry James and
       Patrice Chalin. 

   minor improvements:

     - Fix for bug #1536165 (using * in a \not_modified expression).
       Thanks to Tim Wahls.

     - The jmlunit tool now has support for an external test data
       generator, see the manual page for jmlunit (and in particular
       the -g option) for details.  Thanks to Perry James and Patrice
       Chalin.

     - The jmlc2 scripts now look at an environment variable, JMLC_XMX
       to set memory size when they run.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - Added specifications for several classes in java.io and java.reflect.
       Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - Fix to the specification of java.lang.Class's isPrimitive
       method.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - The binarySearch method of java.util.Arrays is now specified as
       pure.

     - Corrections to specifications of the JDK classes, especially
       with respect to nullity annotations. Much of the code of the
       checker has also been annotated with these modifiers.  Thanks
       to Patrice Chalin and his group.

     - Added a datagroup elementState to java.util.Collection, which
       allows one to talk about the objectState's of elements.

     - Corrections in the tutorial (DBC with JML), thanks to 
       Faraz Hussain and Yoonsik Cheon.

     - Corrections to the Reference Manual, removing constructs that
       have long been deprecated.  Added a wildcard (*) to method
       signatures used in the callable constraint clauses, e.g.,
       this.* and super.* (similar to the wildcards used in the
       assignable clause).  Added a bit more explanation about lockset
       ordering. 

     - Added etc/latex/jml-listings.tex to the release.  This is for
       help typesetting papers about JML using the listings latex package.

     - Support for development using Eclipse; thanks to Patrice
       Chalin.  See the bin4eclipse directory.

   incompatible changes:

     - If you use Java 5 with JML, then jmldoc does not work.
       However, with this release, jmldoc still works if you use JDK
       1.4.2 (or 1.4.1).

     - If you use Java 5 with JML, the specs directory does not match
       the signatures of the Java 5 JDK, so some programs written in
       Java 5 will not type check that should.  The generics
       and other syntax added in Java 5 also don't work properly.

New with release 5.3 (May 17, 2006)

   major improvements:

     - The non_null modifier is now the default on declarations,
       including method arguments and results, and fields.  A new
       modifier keyword, nullable, was introduced to reverse this
       default.  One can accomplish the same thing by using the
       type-level modifier "nullable_by_default", which reverts the
       default back to the old one.  There is a script,
       bin-for-developers/addnullable that can be used to change a
       type to be "nullable_by_default", as a quick way of using this
       default. Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - A new specification expression, \pre(E) can
       be used in the body of a method (e.g., in an assert or in a
       loop invariant) to refer to the pre-state value
       of the expression E.  This is preferred over the syntax,
       \old(E), which can now also be used in the body of a method
       with the same meaning.  Similarly, the expression
       \old(E, Label), can be used in the body of a method to refer to
       the value of the expression E when control last reached the
       label label in the method's current execution.  These don't
       work (in method bodies) in jmlc yet.  This is feature request
       998284.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby for work on parsing and type checking.

     - Added the new "code" modifier for heavyweight specifications and 
       model programs.  Specification cases with the code modifier
       generalize and replace the code_contract, which is now
       deprecated.  Such specification cases are only usable in
       reasoning when it is statically know that the method's code is
       being called, and are not inherited when the method is
       overridden.  This is feature request 1368585.  Thanks to Clyde
       Ruby for work on parsing and type checking.  (This feature is
       not yet implemented in the runtime assertion checker.)

     - The accessible, callable, and measured clauses can now appear
       in heavyweight specifications. Thanks to Clyde Ruby.

     - Added the \same predicate keyword for requires clauses, so the 
       complete precondition from possibly many specification cases 
       do not have to be respecified, e.g., when the clauses in a 
       specification case are to apply to all other specification
       cases. Thanks to Clyde Ruby.

     - Added new keywords \only_accessed, \only_called, and
       \only_captured, which can be used in postconditions.  Thanks to
       Clyde Ruby.

     - The jmlc tool now does static checking of assignable clauses.
       This fixes bug 1489974.  Thanks to Cui Ye.

   minor improvements:

     - A fix to the release procedures (MJ/Makefile) makes the Universe
       type system have what it needs during its checks.  Thanks to
       Werner Dietl. 

     - Made type checking messages about using ghost variables in Java
       code be distinguished from those that discuss using model fields
       in Java code.  Making both of these be errors instead of
       warnings, and recording their position in the message.  Thanks
       to Clyde Ruby.

     - Fixes the problem with the scope of the initializing expressions
       of ghost variables [bug request 1252354].  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.

     - Fix for bug #1274892, compile-time error in RAC code for throws
       part of method sig. Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - Fix to bug #1274631.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - Fixes to the typechecking of model program specifications,
       which can now be used to method's assignable fields when
       specified as a model program.

     - Fixes to various problems with non-deterministic-choice and
       non-deterministic-if model program statements (specifically
       a control flow analysis bug). Thanks to Clyde Ruby.

     - Fixes the checking of assignment to ghost fields.  We now require
       that assignment be done with a set-statement; this was only partially
       true previously. Thanks to Clyde Ruby.

     - Implemented the type checking of method names in the callable
       clause in the case where the prefix is a type name.  Thanks to
       Clyde Ruby.

     - Fixes to the type checking of hence_by annotation statements.
       Thanks to Clyde Ruby.

     - An experimental, alternative translation for runtime assertion
       checking, with the -T option of jmlc, is in progress.  This
       translation makes undefinedness in assertion evaluation result
       in exceptions instead of translating exceptions into arbitrary
       values of the appropriate type.  This is currently not enabled.
       Thanks Frederic Rioux and Patrice Chalin.

     - Fixes to allow static final fields to be properly initialized
       and checked by jmlc.  This fixes bug 762258.  Thanks to Hao Xi.

     - Fixes to 1209866, "constant folding not done for relational
       operators".  Thanks to Hao Xi.

     - Fix to bug  1422691, error not reported when ownership-modifiers
       are misused.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

     - Fixes to the powerSet method of the JML...Set types, including
       a more efficient algorithm, and a version that works for all
       types (bug report 1240298). Thanks to Tim Wahls.

     - Fixes to the interfaces of the specifications shipped in the
       specs/java/sql, specs/javax directory, including the packages
       java.sql, javax.servlet and javax.servlet.http.  These are
       still incomplete, but should now have the right interfaces.
       Thanks to Frederic Rioux and Patrice Chalin.

     - Weakening the specification of java.lang.Object's equals method
       as well as the equals method in java.util's List, Time, and Date;
       these changes allow behavioral subtypes such as java.sql.Timestamp.
       Thanks to Grace Qiu.

     - Added specifications for java.sql's Date, Time, and Types,
       thanks to Grace Qiu.

     - Fixes and improvements to the specification of java.net.URI.
       Thanks to Denise Bacher.

     - Fixes to the specification of java.util's Collection, Set, List and
       Vector (especially the add methods).  Thanks to Greg Dennis.

     - A fix to the contains method's specification in
       java.util.Vector.  This fixes bug 1214986.

     - Added specifications for java.security's KeyPair, PrivateKey,
       PublicKey, and Signature.

     - Fixed the specification of SecurityManager, which were wrong
       because the default signals_only clause wouldn't have allowed
       the throwing of a SecurityException.  Thanks to Tabitha Johnson.

     - Added specifications for java.awt.event.ActionListener.  Thanks
       to Patrice Chalin.

     - The clock is now a datagroup in java.lang.System.  Methods that
       read the clock are not pure.

     - Added a specification of java.io.DataInput.

     - Weakened the specification of java.util.Date's clear method, to
       allow behavioral subtypes in java.security.Provider and other types.

     - The release now includes JMLDebugError in the jar files.  Thanks
       to Neeraj Khanolkar for pointing this bug out.

     - Better, simplified specifications in samples/list, thanks to
       Clyde Ruby.

     - Corrections to the specification of the samples in
       org/jmlspecs/samples/dbc.

     - Changes to the manual pages for the descriptions of the
       Universe type system switch.  These are now more understandable
       and agree with the code.  Thanks to Werner Dietl.

     - Changes to the manual pages to explain more about how to use
       jmlunit and supply test data.  Other changes to explain how to
       use jmlrac.

     - Fixes to documentation, principally to put tables of contents
       at the front of the preliminary design document and the
       reference manual, per Mike Ernst's suggestion.  This fixes
       bug report 1239804. 

     - The Reference Manual now lists various "language levels" as a
       guide to implementers and students.  The idea for this and some
       editing are due to Patrice Chalin and Joe Kiniry.  Peter
       Mueller and Adam Darvas also helped.

     - Various fixes to the Reference Manual, thanks to David Cok and
       Joe Kiniry.

     - Various improvements to the "Preliminary Design of JML"
       document, thanks in part to Clyde Ruby.

     - Changes to the "Design by Contract with JML" document to take
       out most details about specifying exceptions.

     - Added note about how to install the info files for JML to the
       README.html file.  Also added more explicit information about
       running jmlc-compiled programs, and about the problems when
       using JDK 1.5 and how to troubleshoot them. Thanks to Michael
       Ernst and various JML users for pointing out the problems.

   incompatible changes:

     - The default modifier for declarations is now non_null, unless
       the nullable modifier is used, or unless the type is declared
       as nullable_by_default.

     - The "code_contract" has been deprecated.  These can be replaced
       with specification cases using the "code" modifier, and
       "requires \same;" as the precondition.

     - The \other expression is now completely deprecated.

     - The previously deprecated conditional-store-ref syntax has been
       removed. 

     - Methods that read the system clock are no longer considered
       pure.  This affects java.sql.Date, java.sql.Time, java.lang.System

New with release 5.2 (July 12, 2005)

   major improvements:

     - Added the "signals_only" clause that can be used to say what
       exceptions may be thrown when the precondition of a
       specification case is met.  The default signals_only clause is
           signals_only E1, ..., En;
       where E1, ..., En is the list of exceptions (that are subtypes
       of java.lang.Exception) listed in the throws clause of the
       method's header.  This default has the same meaning as the following
       signals clause: 
           signals (Exception e)
                e instanceof E1 || ... || e instanceof En;
       One can use an explicit signals_only clause to get back to the
       old behavior.  The default is signals_only \nothing; if there
       are no exception's declared in the method's header.
       If you had signals clauses of the form
           signals (ET1);
       or
           signals (ET2 e) true;
       in your specifications previously, you should seriously
       consider rewriting these as:
           signals_only ET1;
       or
           signals_only ET2;
       as the signals clauses with no predicate, or which have the
       predicate "true" have no effect on the set of correct
       implementations, but the signals_only clauses do restrict the
       implemetations.  (Thanks to David Cok for helping push the
       semantics, and to Yoonsik Cheon for making jmlc implement this.)

     - The default for the diverges clause in lightweight
       specification cases is now different.  The default diverges
       clause in a lightweight specification case is now, as in
       heavyweight specifications:
           diverges false;
       This makes lightweight specification cases more powerful and useful.

     - Added the "\only_assigned" expression for use in the desugaring
       of assignable clauses that have specification cases.  This
       expression can appear in the same places as the "\not_assigned"
       expression. (Thanks to Clyde Ruby)

     - The jmlc tool now produces warnings about all nonexecutable
       constructs used by default.  This can be turned off by using
       the option -f org.jmlspecs.checker.JMLDefaultWarningFilter.
       This fixes feature request 1195557.

     - The sources for the files in jmlruntime.jar,
       jmljunitruntime.jar, jmlmodels.jar, and jmlmodelsnonrac.jar,
       as well as all of the sources for the JML specifications of the
       Java Development Kit libraries (java.lang, java.util, etc.),
       are now copyright under the GNU Lesser Public License.  This
       allows using these jar files in non-open source applications.
       This fixes Thing-to-Do 1123628.

     - Documentation of the Universe type system was added to the JML
       Reference manual.  Thanks to Peter Mueller and Werner Dietl.

   minor improvements:

     - Added the keyword 'refines' as a synonym for 'refine'.

     - Added British spellings of "behavior" to all keywords with
       "behavior" in them, so you can now use "normal_behaviour", for
       example, as a keyword.

     - Improved contextual interpretation of undefinedness based on
       a recent paper by Cheon and Leavens. This also fixes Bug Reports
       1161560 and feature request 938200.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)

     - Fixed the --source flag for the JML tools, which fixes bug
       number 1169927.

     - More support for \bigint in the runtime assertion checker
       (Thanks to Kui Dai)

     - An addition to the java.math.BigInteger class, the model field
       "value" with type \bigint, allows the use of BigInteger to
       represent \bigint model fields. (Thanks to Patrice Chalin.)

     - Static model methods are allowed in interfaces (Thanks to David Cok)

     - Pre- and postfix expressions work in model methods
       (Thanks to Kui Dai)

     - Better specifications for use with ESC/Java (Thanks to David
       Cok, Eric Poll, and Joe Kiniry)

     - New specifications of exception classes in java.lang, java.io,
       and java.util (Thanks to David Cok)

     - Better specification of the java.lang.Boolean class. (Thanks to
       Patrice Chalin.)

     - Partial specification of the java.sql and javax packages.
       (Thanks to Patrice Chalin, and his group.)

     - Corrected specification of java.util.ResourceBundle by adding a
       missing method. (Thanks to Frederic Rioux.)

     - Corrected specifications and implementations of the
       org.jmlspecs.samples.digraph package.  This package can now be
       compiled with jmlc, and passes all of its JML/JUnit tests.

     - Corrected specifications and implementations of the
       org.jmlspecs.samples.jmlkluwer package.  This package can now be
       compiled with jmlc, and passes all of its JML/JUnit tests.

     - More explicit directions about how to run jmlc-compiled code in
       the README.html file. Thanks to Cui Ye for pointing this out.

     - Many improvements to the JML Reference manual, although it
       still needs work.  In particular, the index now completly
       cross-references the grammar.

     - Fixes to the design by contract tutorial based on suggestions
       from Francisco Laguna.

     - An experimental feature, modifiers null_ref_by_default (vs.
       non_null_ref_by_default) has been added as a class level
       declaration modifier.  There is also an experimental non-null
       statistics feature that has been added. (Thanks to Kui Dai and
       Xi Hao.)

     - An experimental feature, syntax for query and secret modifiers,
       modifiers were added by David Cok.

     - Improved specification of the JML tools in JML.
       (Thanks to Kui Dai.)

     - Improvements to JML specifications of exceptional behavaior, to
       take advantage of the new signals_only clause, including
       corrections to the samples and specifications of parts of the
       implementation of the JML tools.

     - Improvements to the way that declaration modifiers are stored
       in the JML tools internally, to permit more expansion.
       (Thanks to Kui Dai.)

     - Fixing type checking of nondeterministic choice statements,
       which addresses bug 1233052.

     - Improvements to the installation scripts on a Mac, thanks to
       Steve Shaner.

   incompatible changes:

     - The "if" clause in assignable clauses is now deprecated.  One
       should use the \not_assigned predicate in a postcondition instead.

     - The \other expression in the callable clause has been
       deprecated and will be removed in a future release.  (Thanks to
       Clyde Ruby.)

     - The captures clause was moved from the code contract to the method 
       specification, i.e., it can appear in the same places as the assignable 
       clause. (Thanks to Clyde Ruby.)

     - The defaults for diverges and signals clauses in lightweight
       specification cases are now different.  The default diverges
       clause in a lightweight specification case is now, as in
       heavyweight specifications:
           diverges false;
       With the addition of the signals_only clause, there is now a
       default signals_only clause for specification cases, which is
           signals_only E1, ..., En;
       where E1, ..., En is the list of exceptions listed in the
       throws clause of the method's header.  This has the same
       meaning as the following signals clause:
           signals (Exception e)
                e instanceof E1 || ... || e instanceof En;
       If the method's header declares no exceptions, the default
       signals_only clause is:
           signals_only \nothing;
       which has the same meaning as
           signals (Exception e) false;
       So, in effect, this is essentially an incompatibility with the
       old semantics of default signals clauses.  One can use an
       explicit diverges or signals_only clause to get back to the old
       behavior. 

     - Removed the \private_data syntax.

     - Removed -U (--junit) option which becomes obsolete (and was
       implemented incorrectly)

     - The org.jmlspecs.samples.priorityqueue package has been deleted
       from the release, in favor of a revised priority queue example
       in the org.jmlspecs.samples.jmlkluwer directory.  That example
       is the subject of one of the documents in the release.

New with release 5.1 (January 22, 2005)

   major improvements:

     - A new specification expression, \not_assigned(store-ref-list),
       was added to replace the deprecated "if" part of the assignable
       clause.  The meaning is that the expression is true if the
       fields in the data groups named by the store refs in the list,
       and were not assigned during the method's execution.

     - A new clause, captures store-ref-list;, was added to JML to
       specify that a reference in the arguments of the method can be
       retained after the method returns.  This clause is part of the
       code_contract.

     - A new annotation statement, of the form
          debug expression;
       was added to JML.  This statment can be used to print
       information or to generally help with debugging assertions.
       As opposed to Java code, in a debug statment, one can use all
       the JML extensions to Java's expressions. For example, one can
       write: 
          //@ debug System.out.println(\old(x > 3));
       Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.

     - Access to model fields from within model methods is now
       supported. Thanks to Kui Dai and Patrice Chalin.

     - The jmlunit tool now produces test with better names, so that
       the names of tests are more distinguishable in the JUnit GUI
       test runner.  Thanks to David Cok.

     - More support for \bigint in the runtime assertion checker.
       Model methods that return \bigint now work in the runtime
       assertion checker. This involves various changes to the types
       of methods in the org.jmlspecs.models package, and the
       introduction of several new methods.  Also added support for
       \bigint to shift and bitwise expressions. Thanks to Kui Dai and
       Patrice Chalin. 

     - Added new option --neutralContext for jmlc. When enabled,
       assertion expressions are interpreted in a neutral context (see
       Yoonsik Cheon's PhD thesis Section 3.5.1, page 42).  The
       consequence is that expressions like "x.length >0 || true" will
       be false when x == null. Only conditional-or and logical-or
       expressions are affected.  Thanks to Kui Dai.

   minor improvements:

     - The tools now avoid parsing files  that might contain external
       functions when the multijava flag is off.  Thanks to David Cok.
     - The jmlc tool now distinguishes between internal postcondition
       violations and exit postcondition violations.  Thanks to
       Yoonsik Cheon.
     - Fixed the problem of compiling native methods with jmlc (Bug #1054732).
       Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
     - Fixed definite assignment and reachability analysis bugs in
       finally blocks.  Fixes MJ bug 1026058.  Thanks to Curtis Clifton.
     - Corrected dynamic lookup (loading) of nested classes; this
       fixes Bugs item #1028273.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
     - Corrected pretty printing of unary promotion expression; this
       fixes Bugs item #1025299 for jmlc.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
     - Improved translation in jmlc of final fields (concerning blank
       final fields and constant folding); this fixes Bugs item #1027356.
       Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
     - Fixes to solve bugs 1019081 and 1019101 regarding method specifications.
     - Fixes to the output of jmlspec, which was missing some file
       references.  Thanks to David Cok.
     - The jmlunit tool now uses fully-qualified namings of junit's
       TestSuite class, to avoid mixups.  Also we have taken steps to
       prevent org.jmlspecs.lang.TestSuite from being shipped in
       releases.  These help avoid name conflicts, as pointed out in
       bug 1039078.  Thanks to David Cok.
     - The jmldoc tool now owrks with parsign annotations embedded in
       javadoc comments (again).  Thanks to David Cok.
     - The jmldoc tool no longer prints "abstract" for methods
       declared in interfaces.  Thanks to David Cok.
     - Parsing of javadoc comments was fixed to no longer include
       trailing asterisks.  This fixes Bug #842830.  Thanks to David Cok.
     - Applyied a patch, due to K. Proch, in Bugs item #1040730, to
       make Install-JML-Scripts more bullet-proof regarding use of
       J2SDK 1.5 (which doesn't yet work with JML).
     - Fixes to the specification of StringBuffer to add missing
       methods, such as many versions of append and insert, as well as
       setCharAt and other typos.  Thanks to David Cok for additional
       work on this specification. 
     - Added "pure" to the constructors of java.lang.Exception,
       RuntimeException and Throwable.  Thanks to Erik Poll.
     - Fixes to the specification of java.lang.Class's isArray method,
       and the specification of java.lang.Object's clone() method,
       thanks to David Cok.
     - Fixes to the specification of java.lang.String.getBytes; this
       fixes bug 1019425.  Thanks to Patrick for the report.
     - Corrections to the specification of java.io.PrintStream, and
       java.io.InputStream, which fixes bug 1016966.
     - Improvements to the specification of InputStream, thanks to
       David Cok.
     - Correction to the specification of the invariants of Comparable,
       pointed out by Deis Roudet.
     - Correction to the specification of java.lang.Vector;
       elementData has to be in the datagroup theList, as well as
       mapping the elements into theList, so that the trimToSize()
       method can work.
     - Initial work on a specification of java.io.OutputStream.
     - Start of the specification of java.lang.reflect.Array.  Thanks
       to David Cok.
     - Experimental "immutable" modifiers for ESC/Java added to
       various types in org.jmlspecs.models, java.lang, etc..  Thanks
       to David Cok. 
     - Correction to the specification of the JML...Sequence types, to
       avoid aliasing problems.  Thanks to David Cok.
     - Corrections to the specifications in org.jmlspecs.samples.dirobserver.
     - Corrections to the specifications in
       org.jmlspecs.samples.list.node2.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
     - Improvements to options processing of
       org.jmlspecs.jmlunit.JMLTestRunner, which also has a new
       option, -R, to suppress reporting of coverage information.
     - Fixed the -M flag on JMLTestRunner and added tests to check the
       behavior of its options; also added the -list option to simply
       list tests by name and added tests that exercise the longer
       test names.  Fixes RFE1038621.  Thanks to David Cok.
     - Better processing of the -d option in jmlc.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
     - Changes to the Universe type system options, thanks to Werner Dietl.
     - Fixes to the specifications of various JDK classes to work
       better with the Universe type system.
     - Improvements to the documentation of the options that take int
       arguments, to be clear that there are required equal signs.
     - Better organization of the JML.html file to make it easier to
       access the samples and sources for them.
     - Various improvements in the reference manual.  In particular,
       the syntax of generic-spec-case and the numbering of appendix
       sections was corrected.  Thanks to David Cok and Gary Leavens.
     - Added a type checking restriction to the discussion of \old()
       in the reference manual.
       This is that "It is a type error if \old() encloses a
       free occurrence of a quantified variable."
     - Clarified the meaning of completely omitted specifications,
       especially for default zero-argument constructor.  Thanks to David Cok.
     - Some minor clarifications to the sematnics of "pure" in that
       pure methods should be deterministic. (Note, this is not the
       changes we are discussing still on the interest list.)

   incompatible changes:

     - The conditional store reference ("if") syntax in assignable
       clauses is now deprecated.  Use \not_assigned in a
       postcondition instead of this.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
     - The jmlc tool now does assertion checking in the main method,
       thanks to Yoonsik Cheon and David Cok.
     - The jmlc tool's -P (--print) option output now goes to the
       directory where the package's output goes, not to the current
       working directory unless that is also where the package's
       output is going.
     - The model methods in java.math.BigInteger have been removed.

New with release 5.0 (August 14, 2004)

   major improvements:

        - The documentation index file, JML.html, at the top of the
          release, has an improved organization and headings, which
          should make it easier to find material and more helpful.
        - New collection types in the JML models.  These include
          JMLEqualsSet, JMLEqualsBag, JMLEqualsSequence, and types of
          the form JMLXToYRelation and JMLXToYMap, where X and Y are
          taken from {Equals, Value, Object}.  The "Equals" types
          store object identities but compare their elements using the
          "equals" method.  These are used to specify the collection
          types in java.util more accurately.  Note that using \old()
          with the JMLEqualsSet type is somewhat problematic if the
          elements in the set can be mutated in ways that change their
          equivalence classes with respect to the equals operation.
          Thanks to Roy Tan for pointing out the need for such changes.
        - Better specifications of the sample classes, thanks to David
          Cok and ESC/Java2, Roy Tan and his version of jmlc, and
          Carlos Pacheco with Daikon, and to Gary Leavens and Clyde
          Ruby for fixes.
        - Better specifications of the J2SDK classes, thanks to David
          Cok, Alexandru D. Salcianu, Ajani Thomas, and Roy Tan.
        - The jmlspec tool's diff option now works with comparisons
          against class files, thanks to David Cok.
        - Better GUI support, especially for jmldoc.  Now jmldoc GUI
          users can type in javadoc options not previously available
          in the GUI. Thanks to Kristina Boysen.
        - Better treatment of error message reporting, thanks to David Cok.

   minor improvements:

        - Fixes to cache behavior in the tools, thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Fixed problem that <jml> as first thing on a line in a
          javadoc comment was not recognized as a Jml annotation,
          thanks to David Cok. 
        - An experimental feature, the Universe type system, is being
          added to the code by Werner Dietl.  It is off by default.
        - Rework was done on the math modes to allow the
          compiler/checker to issue warnings if an unsafe arithmetic
          operation can potentially overflow in the default math mode
          of a specification. In its current version, the warnings are
          turned off by default and only the unary minus and binary
          addition are handled. The future version of this feature
          will handle all unsafe operations and the warnings will be
          turned on by default.  Thanks to Frank Rioux.
        - Support for \bigint in the runtime assertion checker
          and model methods in particular (ongoing).  Thanks to Kui Dai.
        - Various bug fixes to the tools found by the findbugs tool.
        - Documentation for the models and other packages generated by
          jmldoc now ignores _JML_Test and TestSuite files, due to use
          of a new option on the tools (excludefiles).  This fix to 
          RFE 956876, excludes _JML_Test files  by default.  Thanks to
          Gary Leavens with help from David Cok.
        - Fixes to bug 972881, so that minimum integral constants
          rejected as invalid.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin.
        - Some of the type checking for Java generics has been
          installed, thanks to Tongjie Chen.
        - The runtime now allows dynamic calls from boot classes, such
          as JML's java.util.Enumeration, to regular classes.  Thanks
          to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - The GUI's warning message for having no specs directory
          gives a clearer message and prints out the classpath and
          sourcepath being used by the tool.  Thanks to Kristina
          Boysen.
        - Fixes to correct some problems with combining refinements in
          jmldoc, thanks to David Cok.
        - Fixes to bug #895093 for jmldoc 1.4.1, thanks to David Cok.
        - Fixes to jmldoc for Java 1.4.2 to handle the new script that
          shows the window title.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - Fixed handling of of packages on command-line in jmldoc,
          thanks to David Cok.
        - Fix for bug 997941; javadoc option -group now works in
          jmldoc.  Thanks to Kristina Boysen.
        - Fixes for javadoc messages not going to correct place in
          jmldoc's GUI, thanks to Kristina Boysen.
        - Fixed bug #933604 so that jmldoc now generates in and maps
          clause information in the html for packages.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - Fixed bug #936237; -protected is now the default in jmldoc
          rather than -package, so the behavior now matches javadoc. 
          Thanks to David Cok.
        - Fixing some jmldoc crashes because of incomplete
          initialization in the GUIs, thanks to David Cok.
        - The jmlspec tool has a looser comparison with respect to 
          the synchronized modifier, by default.  A new option,
          synch, allows the old tighter comparison.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - Fixes to jmlspec: fixing comparision of type names; masking
          the SUPER bit on classes, improved formatting and error
          messages.  Thanks to David Cok. 
        - The comments output by jmlunit have been slightly improved
          to give better direction to the reader.
        - Fixes to correct bug #928321 in the jml-junit script; this
          bug prevented proper functioning of jml-junit.  Thanks to
          Joe Kiniry for reporting it.
        - Specifications that work better with the latest version of
          ESC/Java2, thanks to David Cok.
        - A specification of java.util.Arrays, thanks to Ajani Thomas.
        - A start on the specifications of the java.io package, thanks
          to David Cok and Katie Becker.
        - New specifications of the SecurityManager and
          StackTraceElement classes, thanks to Ajani Thomas.
        - Added a model method bigintValue() that returns \bigint to the
          class java.math.BigInteger.  Thanks to Kui Dai.
        - Added some model fields to specify that some of the pure methods
          in Class.jml and Object.jml, such as getClass() or isArray()
          are "idempotent", ie. invocations of these methods on a
          given object always return the same answer.  Thanks to Erik Poll.
        - Some small corrections to the JML Tutorial document.
        - More corrections to the reference manual, thanks to David
          Cok, Joe Kiniry, and Gary Leavens.
        - Changes to troubleshooting directions in README.html based
          on problems noted by Richard Mitchell.

   incompatible changes:

        - Formerly deprecated syntax was removed.  This includes:
            readable_if jml-var-assertion, replaced by the readable clause,
            monitored_by jml-var-assertion, replaced by monitored_by clause,
            depends clauses, replaced by in and maps clauses with data groups,
            \fields_of, which can be replaced by uses of data groups,
            accessible clauses in specification cases,
                 these are now only in code contracts, and
            measured_by clauses in specification cases,
                 these are now only in code contracts.
          Thanks to David Cok for implementing much of the new syntax.
        - Fields of model objects can no longer be referenced 
          in the assignable clause; such expressions do not specify a set of 
          concrete fields that can be assigned to since model objects
          are abstract and do not have a concrete state or concrete
          fields. Thus expressions like F.x are not allowed in the
          assignable clause when F is a model field.   Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Also, for the same reason the maps clause is not allowed in
          the declaration of a model field. Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The method size() in JMLCollection that returns an int has
          been renamed to be int_size(); there is a new model method named
          size() that returns a \bigint.  Thanks to Kui Dai.
        - The model field length in the model types JML...Sequence was
          renamed to a method length(), and a variable _length of type
          JMLFiniteInteger was added.  Thanks to Kui Dai.
        - The methods size() and length() in JMLCollection that
          returned an int have been renamed to be int_size() and
          int_length(), respectively.  There are a new model methods named
          size() and length() that return type \bigint.  Thanks to Kui Dai.
        - The model variables in java.util.Collection,
          java.util.List, and java.util.Set are now of types
          JMLEqualsBag, JMLEqualsSequence, and JMLEqualsSet, respectively.
        - The specification of java.util.Vector and its subclass
          java.util.Stack no longer have a public model variable
          called theVector or model methods hasEqItem and
          indexOfEqItems.  Use the model variable theList (inherited
          from List) instead, along with the has and indexOf methods
          on this model variable instead of the two methods removed.
        - The grammar appendix was removed from the preliminary design
          document.  The complete grammar will henceforth only be
          maintained in the reference manual.
        - Files with names that include the pattern _JML_Test[.$] are
          now ignored by default in the jml, jmlc, and jmldoc tools.
          This may cause problems if you have other classes that
          reference these files; if so, you should change the default
          --excludefiles option, to either allow such files, or to
          exclude the files that reference these _JML_Test files.

New with release 4.1 (Feb. 9, 2004)

   major improvements:

        - There is now a user interface for the main tools (jml, jmlc,
          jmlunit, jmldoc).  See the installation procedures in the
          README.html file for how to start the user interfaces.
          Thanks to Kristina Boysen. 
        - Joe Kiniry has contributed an initial set of JDEE-based
          emacs macros with inline-expansions for JML.  These are in
          etc/emacs. 
        - JML now supports implicit promotion of integral expressions
          to arbitrary precision arithmetic (bigint_math mode) from
          inside specifications (but not in Java code).  In code, the
          default math mode is java_mode (i.e., the standard Java
          math), but safe_math mode is also available that gives
          exceptions on integer overflow.  In specifications,
          bigint_math mode is enabled by default.  The default for
          compiled code can be changed to safe_math mode by using the
          --safemath (-s) option on jmlc; but note that this feature
          is still under development.
          To support this feature, two primitive value types \bigint
          and \real were added.  The type \bigint is used 
          implicitly in specifications (but not in Java code).  Also
          the modifiers code_java_math, code_safe_math,
          code_bigint_math, spec_java_math, spec_safe_math, and
          spec_bigint_math, were added.  These can be used wherever
          the "pure" modifier could be used previously. In addition,
          the operators \java_math(), \safe_math(), and
          \bigint_math() were added.
          Integer arithmetic is implicitly done in bigint_math mode in JML
          specifications, unless turned off.  Full support for \bigint
          in the runtime assertion checker and for \real is still forthcoming.
          Quoting an [edited] email of Patice Chalin:
           "In summary, the semantics of JML has been changed to support:
            + New types integrated into Java's type hierarchy.
             *  Automatic widening conversion to \bigint and \real of
                integral and numeric types respectively.
             *  Appropriately defined narrowing conversions from
                \bigint and \real. 
            + "Safe" arithmetic.
             *  The "unsafe" arithmetic operators are those that can
                cause overflow; they are unary -, binary +, -, * and /.
             *  By default in JML, unsafe operators now promote their integral
                operands to \bigint.  (There is no implicit promotion
                to \real yet.) 
             *  There are two exceptions to the previous rule:
                 +  If the evaluation in Java of a constant expression
                    E would not result in arithmetic overflow or loss
                    of precision (via a narrowing type cast), then E
                    will be given the same meaning (e.g. type and
                    value) in JML.  Thus -5 is of type int in JML. 
                 +  The JML expression \java_math(E)
                    has the same meaning as E in Java. 
             *  The \bigint_math() operator can be used
                to re-enable JML semantics within a \java_math()
                expression.
             *  [The \safe_math(E) operator uses java math but throws
                exceptions on overflow; these usually lead to
                assertion failures.]
              ...
            + Run-time exceptions for unsafe operators and casts.
             *  The JML semantics are defined as if unsafe arithmetic
                and loss of precision via narrowing casts results in
                run-time exceptions.
            The JML checker and jmldoc support this feature.  The RAC [jmlc
            tool] offers partial/approximated support for \bigint and
            \real in that all JML specifications are processed by the
            RAC but \bigint and \real are 
            interpreted as long and double at run-time."
          Thanks to Patrice Chalin and Frederic Rioux.
          This is feature request 738013.
        - New syntax for jml-var-declaration features (initially,
          readable_if, and monitors_for).   There are now separate
          type-level clauses "monitors_for", "readable", and
          "initially" to replace these.  Their syntax is as follows:

            initially predicate ;
            readable ident if predicate ;
            monitors_for ident l_arrow-or-eq spec-expression-list ;

          where

            l_arrow-or-eq ::= <- | =
            spec-expression-list ::= spec-expression [ , spec-expression ] ...

          For example:

            //@ initially x >= 0;
            //@ readable y if z > 3 && q < 4;
            //@ monitors_for myDB <- a.lock, b.lock;
            //@ monitors_for myRocket = foo.bar; 

          The old "initially" clause syntax was completely removed,
          but the old monitored_by and "readable_if" syntax are still
          available but deprecated.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - New syntax for declaring membership in the data group of a
          model field, inspired by Rustan Leino's work, the "in" and
          "maps \into" clauses of field declarations, were added to
          JML.  The samples have been updated to use these clauses,
          and the "depends" clause has been deprecated.
          All public and protected fields, as well as all model fields
          are considered to be data groups.  Data group clauses
          (i.e., the 'in' and 'maps' clauses) must immediately 
          follow a field declaration; these clauses have the same
          visibility as the field(s) being declared.
          Thanks to Clyde Ruby and David Cok.
        - The type checker now checks that fields of the receiver 
          are assigned to in accordance with the method's assignable
          clause.  Methods called are also checked.  The checks are
          incomplete and conservative, but still make the assignable
          clause have some teeth, and make "pure" mean something real.
          For example, called methods can only assign to fields that are 
          allowed by the calling method.  That is, if A calls B, then 
          B's assignable fields must be a subset of A's assignable 
          fields.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby (Nenad Koncar also helped 
          with the visitor class that traverses the method body and 
          gathers the information needed for the code contract; 
          this tells us the fields accessed and assigned to and the 
          methods called in the body of a method so we can do the 
          checking of the assignable clause.)
        - Furthermore, the checker will now emit an error when a pure
          method calls another method that has no assignable clause. 
          Previously, we ignored such calls, i.e., when the assignable
          fields were left unspecified or were \not_specified.
          No checking is done of dynamic dependencies for non-pure
          methods yet. (Also, there is an option "-A", that does not
          issue all of the assignable clause errors.)
          Thanks to Michel Charpentier for reporting this as bug
          817445, and to Clyde Ruby for the fix. 
        - The type checker now issues a warning when there is no
          represents clause for a model field.  Also the runtime
          assertion checker now issues warnings for represents clauses
          that are not executable.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - New syntax to replace the \fields_of operator.  One can
          write E.* to describe all the fields of E, and AE[*] to
          describe the elements of an array AE.  These can be combined
          as in AE[*].*.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The type checker will now issue errors on more than one JML
          declaration during a run.  For example, errors on all
          invariant-clauses, represents-clauses, initially-clauses,
          etc. will now be issued by the typechecker before it stops.
          Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The jmldoc tool (and thus all of the JML tools) now work
          under either J2SDK 1.4.1 or J2SDK 1.4.2.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - The jmlunit tool has a new way of providing test data that
          allows for more user control and less redundancy.  The new
          version of this tool is incompatible with the old version.
          The main difference is that the _JML_TestData class is now a
          superclass of the _JML_Test class (which is the reverse of
          the previous inheritance structure).  Because of these
          changes, all _JML_TestData.java files will need to be
          regenerated; the best way to do this is to move the current
          _JML_TestData.java files you currently have somewhere, and
          then run the jmlunit tool to generate new versions of these
          files.  Then you can edit in the old test data from the old
          files. In addition, users may need to change their
          makefiles or ant tasks, since the tests are no longer run
          from the _JML_TestData class, but from the new subclass,
          which is the _JML_Test class.  See the comments in the
          _JML_TestData files, and the documentation in the
          org.jmlspecs.jmlunit.strategies package (in its package.html
          file) for details on how to provide test data.  There are
          also examples in the org/jmlspecs/samples and
          org/jmlspecs/models directories (and their subdirectories).
        - The jmlunit tool has a new option --inherit (-i), which
          generate tests for inherited methods. Currently no tests are
          generated for non-overridden methods inherited from
          java.lang.Object.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - There are new JML keywords "field", "method", and
          "constructor", which can be used to switch out of JML
          annotation mode (in which JML keywords like "model" and
          "helper" are recognized) into unreserved mode (no JML
          keywords recognized, but backslash tokens ok).  For example,
          you can write:
                 //@ public model field model x;
                 //@ public pure model method helper.T func() { ... }
          to declare a model field named of type "model" named "x" and
          a method returning the type "helper.T".  The lexer also
          switches to unreserved mode upon seeing the Java reserved
          words 'class' and 'interface', and switches back when 
          seeing the first left curly bracket following these.  This
          fixes most of bug 666257.
        - The jmlunit tool now gives the user enough control so that
          they do not have to allow potentially mutable
          objects to be reused during testing.  The change is a more abstract
          interface that gives users control each time a piece of
          test data is requested.  Also, null receivers are
          now counted as test failures instead of being recorded as
          meaningless test inputs, so that "meaningless" tests only
          correspond to entry precondition failures.  This fixes bug
          #781711.
        - The jmlc tool has a new option -U (--junit), which changes
          the interpretation of omitted signals clauses in lightweight
          specifications. With the option, such an omitted signals
          clause is now interpreted as "signals (Exception e) false;".
          It is suggested that this be used when using jmlc with jmlunit.
          This new option supports the Feature Requests item 797531.
          Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon and to Clyde Ruby for the suggestion.
        - There is now a tutorial on using JML as a design by contract
          language that ships with the release.

   minor improvements:

        - Annotation comments can now end in ...@@@*/ and ...@@@@+*/, thanks
          to David Cok's work.
        - The measured_by clause is now part of the
          code_contract (formerly subclassing contract).  Thanks to
          Clyde Ruby. 
        - The order of the clauses in a code contract no longer
          matters in the syntax.  This is feature request 748945.
        - The syntax of the accessible clause now matches the
          assignable clause (conditional-store-ref-list that includes
          now \other).  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The syntax for specifications in javadoc comments now no
          longer has to be surrounded by the <pre> and </pre> tags,
          although these can still be used.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - The operators \max, <, and <= can now be used to compare lock
          orderings, as in Esc/Java.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - The jmlunit generated test drivers now print one dot (.) for
          each test case, not one dot for each test method.  Thanks to
          Yoonsik Cheon.
        - The suffixes ".JAR" and ".ZIP" are recognized as special
          suffixes in the CLASSPATH, as are ".jar" and ".zip".  This
          helps compatability with javac, and is good for people on
          case-insensitive file systems.  This fixes RFE 756766.
        - The JML typechecker now issues an error if a \private_data
          appears in a "callable" clause.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Corrections to the type checking of specifications of 
          inner types.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Corrections to the handling of the default constructor in a
          refinement chain.  This fixes bug #841830.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Type checking of local ghost variables is corrected.  Now 
          the ghost variable is visible to JML annotations, but not to
          the java code in the body of a method.  Thus, the ghost
          variable shadows a field of the type for JML set, assert,
          and assume statements, but the ghost variable is not visible
          to the actual program.  This eliminates the erroneous error
          shown in bug report #810078 and does fix bug #811255. Thanks
          to Clyde Ruby.  
        - The number of files parsed by the tools has been reduced toward the
          minumum.  The tools now only process a type up through the
          first two passes and then only continue if needed for type
          checking.  However, nearly all of the files parsed seem to
          need to be processed up through the check initializer phase.
          Thanks to Clyde Ruby and Curtis Clifton.
        - The tools no long use Vector, but instead use ArrayList.
          This should eliminate a significant number of unnecessary
          synchronization checks. Thanks to Curtis Clifton and Clyde
          Ruby.
        - Eliminated false optimization of caching used array lists.
          Performance is slightly better without caching used array
          lists, the virtual machine is free to do more garbage
          collection without the caching, and the code that uses array
          lists is less complex without the caching. Thanks to Curtis Clifton.
        - The type checker in the various tools now checks most
          clauses, instead of stopping when the first error is
          detected.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The tools now issue an error when a class attempts to "implement"
          rather than "extend" another class.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Improvements to the error message issued when inherited
          fields are ambiguous. This matches the information issued by
          javac and is more important in JML because of inherited
          model instance variables from interfaces. Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Fixed bug 704335, where certain mutually recursive references in
          .class files could cause an infinite loop in the tools.
          Thanks to Curtis Clifton.
        - Added the checking of modifiers in local variable declarations;
          they were not being checked previously.
          This fixes bug #719901.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Processing of refinement chains in
          the runtime assertion checker has been fixed, bug 759932 and
          others.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The runtime assertion checker now generates correct code for
          conditional represents clauses (which occurred when the
          first expression was "null").  This fixes bug 759887.
          Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Fixed several bugs including the error related to the
          refinement of method specifications when these methods are
          not implemented in the subclass but are implemented in the
          super class.  Also, the checker checks to make sure that
          model methods in the super class are also model methods in
          the subclass. This fixes bug #740479.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The typechecker will now issue an error message when a
          non-model field is declared in a refinement chain, but that
          field is not declared in the ".java" or ".class" file. That
          is, all fields except model fields must be part of the
          implementation of a type.  This fixes bug #759932.   Thanks
          to Clyde Ruby.
        - Improved error message when errors are emitted during checking
          of the assignable clause.  Implementation of Feature request
          830202.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The typechecker now correctly demands that the argument to
          \elemtype be \TYPE rather than an array-typed expression,
          in accordance with the design document.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - Fixed an error translating quantified expression in
          jmlc. This fix handles the case where the type of quantified
          variables are different from those of range expressions,
          thus causing type-cast errors, e.g., in 
              (\forall int i; 0L < i && i < 3L; true).
          Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon and to Patrice Chalin for reporting
          this error as Bug Report 762422.
        - Fixed an error in inheriting interface model fields. A subclass often
          erroneously overrides an inherited model field accessor
          method by providing a default model field access method
          (that throws an angelic exception). This causes every
          reference to the corresponding model field to result in an
          InvocationTargetException, thus causing a tremendous impact
          on the runtime speed. This fixes the slowness of
          JML/JUnit-based tests in org/jmlspecs/samples and other
          directories.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - The jmldoc tool now notes if a method inherits a purity
          specification (the pure modifier) from a method it
          overrides.  This was RFE 866345.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - The jmlspec tool now handles interfaces that specify members
          of java.lang.Object correctly.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - Added some small samples to the new
          org.jmlspecs.samples.misc package.  These include
          demonstrations of small examples of proving programs correct
          (by hand).  These have JML/JUnit tests.
        - Improved, simplified, and corrected specifications of 
          sample specifications for lists.  Also added more samples
          relating to lists with differing implementations and slight 
          variations in specifications.  These now also have 
          JUnit tests. Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Now that the newest ESC/Java deals with most of JML's
          syntax, the + forms of the JML annotation comments have been
          removed from most samples and the specs directory.  Thanks
          to David Cok.
        - Small improvements to the preliminary design document.
        - Improvements to the reference manual by David Cok, Joe Kiniry, 
          Clyde Ruby, and Gary Leavens.  These reflect also the current
          development work on ESC/Java, and editing of the sections on
          refinement and dependencies.  The diverges clause has been
          illustrated, and there is some rudimentary description of
          model programs.
        - Many changes to and corrections of the specifications of the
          JDK, the JML model types, and the tool code to make the
          specifications also pass the new version of ESC/Java
          (referred to as ESC/Java2).  Thanks to David Cok.
        - A correction to the specification of java.util.List and the
          JML...Sequence types, thanks to Roy Tan.
        - Some small improvements to the specifications of the tool's code.
        - Clarifications to the developer-tips file.  Thanks to Patrice Chalin.

   incompatible changes:

        - The installation procedures require you to copy the
          tools.jar file to the Java extensions directory (jre/lib/exts/).
        - Due to implicit promotion to \bigint, if you get an error
          message saying that some function with argument type \bigint
          doesn't exist, probably you need to use an explicit cast to
          suppress the error. Quoting an email of Partice Chalin:
            'E.g. the checker reports
                  File "misc\LinearSearch.java", line 46, character 43 error:
                  Cannot find method "f(\bigint)"
            for the statement
                  /*@ assert 0 <= x-1 && !f(x-1) ...
            where the declaration of f is f(int).  To correct the specification
            insert a type cast:
                 /*@ assert 0 <= x-1 && !f((int)(x-1)) ...
            This informs the checker (and eventually ESC/Java) that we
            know that the value of x-1 is in the range of values for
            int's but that we still wish to be reminded of this proof
            obligation and that the RAC should issue a run-time
            exception if "x-1" is a \bigint value outside of the int
            range.'
        - The type JMLDataGroup is now in a new package
          org.jmlspecs.lang, it was moved from org.jmlspecs.models.
          However, there is an implicit model import of
          org.jmlspecs.lang, so this should not greatly affect users.
        - The constructors JMLByte(int), JMLChar(int), and
          JMLShort(int) were removed as they inherently can allow
          undetected overflow. 
        - There is no longer a special syntax for .refines-jml, .jml, and
          .jml-refined files which don't use annotation markers.
          These annotation markers are now required.
        - The old syntax for the "initially" clause that was part of
          the field declaration is no longer supported.  Use the
          type-level "initially" clause instead.
        - The syntax for the "readable_if" and "monitored_by" clauses
          of field declarations has been deprecated in favor of the
          new type-level "readable" and "monitors_for" clauses instead.
        - The subclassing_contract has been changed to code_contract.
          The callable and accessible clauses are not allowed to occur
          in other places because of the different inheritance
          semantics between these clauses and other clauses in the
          specification.  However, the "code_contract" clause occurs
          in the specification in the same places as a heavyweight
          specification (unlike the subclassing contract) and has a
          visibility modifier.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The measured_by clause has been moved to the code_contract.
          (The old placement in method specifications has been deprecated).
        - The syntax of the \fields_of operator is now deprecated and
          will be removed in a future release of JML.  Use the syntax
          E.* instead of \fields_of(E).
        - The \reach clause has been simplified and only takes one
          argument now.
        - The depends clause has been deprecated in favor of the "in"
          and "maps ... \into" clauses, which can be attached to field
          declarations.  The depends clause syntax will be removed in
          a future release of JML.
        - The expression \not_modified(x) no longer applies to
          dependees of x.
        - The JML tools now, by default, do not parse MultiJava source
          code.  Use the --multijava option to parse this syntax.
        - The jmlunit tool is incompatible with the old version.
          The main difference is that the _JML_TestData class
          (formerly the _JML_TestCase class) is now a
          superclass of the _JML_Test class (which is the reverse of
          the previous inheritance structure).  Because of these
          changes, all _JML_TestData.java (or older _JML_TestCase.java)
          files will need to be regenerated; the best way to do this
          is to move the current test data files you currently have
          somewhere, and then run the jmlunit tool to generate new
          _JML_TestData files.  Then you can edit in the old test data
          from the old files. In addition, users may need to change their
          makefiles or ant tasks, since the tests are no longer run
          from the _JML_TestData class, but from the new subclass,
          which is the _JML_Test class.  Unfortunately, this
          change isn't easily automated, and so must be done by hand.
        - Checking for and warning about missing assignable clauses in
          heavyweight specifications, is on by default.  It used to be
          you had to turn it on with the -a option, but now that
          option turns it off.  This was to-do item 742702.
        - The default warning filter for the JML tools is now
          JMLDefaultWarningFilter instead of JMLWarningFilter.
        - In the JML specification of java.util.Iterator, the former
          (instance) model field "remove_called_since" has been
          changed to a ghost field.  This makes it easier to deal with
          in implementations of classes that implement Iterator.
        - Also, the JML specifications of java.util.Iterator and
          java.util.Enumeration use a model variable moreElements
          instead of the former ghost variable of the same name.
        - In JMLDataGroup, formerly deprecated methods are now deleted
          and the class is now final.  The deprecated methods in
          JML...Relation were also removed.

New with release 4.0 (May 22, 2003)

   major improvements:

        - jmlc now supports refinement. An input file is compiled into
          Java bytecode either (1) it has a source file in its
          refinement chain, either above or below, or (2) a
          command-line option --noSource (-u) is specified.
          Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - jmlspec now has a --diff mode. In this mode, for each file
          (.java or any specification file) on the command-line,
          jmlspec finds (using the CLASSPATH) the set of all
          specification files for the class(es) defined in that file. 
          Thanks to David Cok.
        - jmlc no longer puts class files in the wrong directory on
          case-insensitive file systems.  Thanks to Curtis Clifton.
        - In the assertion violation messages produced by jmlc, an old
          expression, e.g., \old(e), is now printed as '\old(e)'
          instead of being printed as rac$old1. This partly addresses
          RFE #661832. Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - The jmlc tool now produce a warning message for
          non-executable quantified expressions; these
          non-executable warning messages are now level 1 warning
          messages, so they are easier to produce.
        - The jmlunit and jmlspec tools now properly handle the -d
          option to place their output relative to the directory
          specified, and they also handle processing of files in a
          directory other than the current one by placing their output
          where the source file is (provided the -d option isn't
          used).  This makes them more like the other tools (jmlc,
          jmldoc) in their treatment of -d and file arguments.  Thanks
          to Curtis Clifton for his help on this.  This fixes bugs
          731412 and 699410. 
        - The checker can now handle refinement of .class files,
          thanks to Clyde Ruby.

   minor improvements:

        - The JML language now allow multiple variable assertions for field
          declarations, such as initially, readable_if, and
          monitored_by.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - The beginnings of support for primitive types "bigint" and
          "real" are included in the tools, which are designed to help
          make specifications more consistent and easy to understand.
          Thanks to Patrice Chalin and Frederic Rioux.
        - The model types, JML*Sequence now have two new operations,
          isDeletionFrom and isInsertionInto, for specifying when one
          sequence is the result of deleting or inserting a given
          element into another.  These are convenient for specifying 
          things like sorting algorithms.
        - Model programs are now typechecked properly, thanks to Clyde
          Ruby.  Fixes bugs 719913 and 715650.
        - Ghost variables can be initialized in a file that is not a
          .java file.  Also, a ghost variable is only allowed to have
          one inititializer. This fixes bug #729291.  Thanks to Clyde
          Ruby.
        - The checker and other tools now properly take into account
          default constructors when combining constructors in a
          refinement chain. The jmlc tool now produces an error
          message if a non-abstract method has no body and
          jmlc is invoked with the flag --noSOurce. This fixes bug
          no. 729542.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - Code produced by jmlc now throws instances of
          JMLNormalPostconditionError for normal postcondition
          violations, as described in Section 4.1.1 of Cheon's
          dissertation.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - Fixed a parsing bug where expressions that looked like casts
          but aren't were misinterpreted.  Thanks to Curt Clifton.
        - The JML tool parsers no longer find <- and other JML
          operators in Java contexts when they shouldn't, making Java
          code parse correctly, and giving better error messages.
          This fixes bug 740477.
        - The JMLTestRunner now doesn't give a warning when the tests
          have detected errors or failures.
        - The release now contains, in JML/bin/jmlmodels.jar classes
          for the org.jmlspecs.models and org.jmlspecs.models.resolve
          packages compiled with jmlc, as well as a similar jar file
          not compiled with jmlc in bin/jmlmodelsnonrac.jar.  There is
          a --nocheckmodels option on jmlrac and jml-junit that one
          can use to avoid using the assertion checked version.  This
          fixes bug 730334.  Thanks to Michael Moeller for pointing
          out the problem this fixes.
        - Corrections to the JDK specifications for BitSet, Set,
          TreeMap, thanks to Roy Tan.
        - Corrections to the specifications of the JDK classes Number,
          Object, GregorianCalendar, in the specs directory, thanks to
          the new jmlspec --diff option. 
        - The samples in the stack directory have been improved and
          now have JML/JUnit based tests. The BoundedStack
          implementation now has a size that is fixed by the
          constructor.
        - The samples in the prelimdesign directory now have JML/JUnit
          based tests.  The integer square root examples now finally
          work, thanks to Chalin's comments.
        - Some improvements to the samples/digraph directory, with
          JML/JUnit testing, thanks to Katie Becker.
        - The expression \private_data was added to the grammar, for
          use in subclassing contracts.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The jmlspec tool now omits strictfp by default, and has an
          option to suppress complaints about missing and inherited
          specifications.  It implements checking of inner classes.
          It now has a --path (-p) option that controls how filenames
          are printed.
          Thanks to David Cok.
        - Improvements to the reference manual by Joe Kiniry.  These
          reflect also the current development work on ESC/Java.

   incompatible changes:

        - The tools now output file, line, and column number
          information in a more novice-friendly format. This was
          Multijava 741089. 
        - The JML type checker and other tools now check and process
          that all compilation units (files) in a refinement chain are
          type checked whenever any one of the files in the chain is
          checked (or appears on the command line).  The order for the
          typechecking of files in a refinement chain is now fixed (so
          the output should always be the same); typechecking starts
          with the least refined compilation unit and procedes until
          the most refined unit is checked.  The output from
          typechecking a file in a refinement chain is now identical
          for each file (i.e., all the errors found in all files is
          included in the output of each file).  This closes bug
          #717291.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Development now requires Anltr 2.7.2 or higher.
        - The jmlunit now issues a caution if a file is given on the
          command-line that does not end in .java.  This fixes bug
          720493.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - The class org.jmlspecs.jmlunit.JMLJUnitSetUpOptimizations
          that was deprecated has now been deleted.
        - The -d option works correctly now for jmlunit and jmlspec (see
          above), although this is different than the way it (didn't)
          work before.

New with release 3.7 (April 8, 2003)
   major improvements:
        - Three new specification expressions have been added to
          permit specification of time and space.  These are
          \duration, \space, and \working_space.
        - Refinements are now checked for consistency of
          declarations, and several other bugs with refinement have
          been fixed.  In particular, the bug concerning purity
          propagating from interfaces (number 67917) and a bug
          concerning static variables (bug #663949) were fixed.
          The checker now also treats the "synchronized", "native",
          and "strictfp" modifiers as properties of an implementation
          that don't have to appear in all refinements.  Finally, pure and
          synchronized can both be used together.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The jmldoc tool now handles refinement. Thanks to David Cok.
        - David Cok has written a new tool, jmlspec, which is a
          specification skeleton generator.  It takes a Java source
          file and can produce a file that one could use to add
          specifications to in a way that would refine the original.
        - The syntax of the refine clause has been simplified to
            refine "A.java";
          where only a file and no classes are mentioned.  Thanks to
          Clyde Ruby for this and to David Cok for the suggestion.
        - javadoc is now compatible with JDK 1.4
   minor improvements:
        - A better definition of pure methods and constructors in the
          preliminary design document.
        - JML's specification for java.lang.String now includes all
          the methods in J2SDK 1.4.  This fixes bugs 697397 and
          697415.  Other specifications have also been systematically
          checked to match the API of J2SDK 1.4. Thanks to Peter Chan
          for reporting this and David Cok for building the jmlspec
          tool which helped in this process.
        - Added the method int size() to the protocol for
          JMLCollection.  Also, for use in specifications of java.util,
          added static convertFrom methods that take JMLCollections as
          arguments to various collection classes.
        - Added static counterparts to isZero, withinEpsilonOf, and
          approximatelyEqualTo methods for JMLFloat and JMLDouble in
          the org.jmlspecs.models directory.  Fixing
          approximatelyEqualsTo to handle arguments that are zero.
        - Correction to the specification of the method next in
          JMLEnumerationToIterator, thanks to the runtime assertion
          checker and Yoonsik Cheon.
        - Various improvements to the specifications of the JDK types.
          Thanks to David Cok and Roy Tan.
        - More specifications of types in java.util, thanks to Katie
          Becker and Kristina Boysen.
        - A set of lightweight specification examples has been added
          to the org.jmlspecs.samples.dbc package.
        - A set of specification examples demonstrating depends and
          represents clauses has been added to the
          org.jmlspecs.samples.reader directory; thanks to Arnd
          Poetzsch-Heffter for these, which are adapted from 
          the TOPLAS paper of Leino and Nelson.
        - The examples in the org.jmlspecs.samples.sets directory were
          improved thanks to Katie Becker, who also provided a new
          implementation of the specification there.
        - The jmldoc tool now lists spec_public and spec_protected
          along with other modifiers and the type in the Field,
          method, constructor and nested class summary tables. Thanks
          to David Cok.
        - The checker and other tools now properly handle assignment
          to final fields and variables within loops in the presence
          of breaks and continues.  This fixes bug 684381.  Similar
          bugs in definite assignment and reachability status when an
          if-statement has a constant 'true' predicate, numbers 700705 and
          700708, were also fixed. Thanks to Joe Kiniry and Jesse Rosenstock
          for reporting these and providing test cases,
          and to Curtis Clifton for fixing it.
        - The checker now properly handles blank final fields refered
          to in assignable clauses of specifications.  This fixes bug
          #713091.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The checker now properly handles some of the type checking
          of initializers and model programs, although there is more
          to be done.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The tools now correctly parse expressions such as
          (int[].class.toString().length() & 0xFF), fixing bug 
          #715904.  Thanks to Peter Chan and Curtis Clifton.
        - The jmlc tool now produces a caution message when refinement
          is used, since it doesn't yet implement refinement.
        - The jmlc tool now produces assertion violation messages
          in Emacs-compatible format, so that you can jump to the
          appropriate line.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - A new command-line option --recursiveType (-t) to jmlc that forces
          typechecking of recursively referenced types. By default, no
          typechecking is done for recursively referenced types (for
          performance reason). Fixes bug no. 661930 reported by Peter
          Chan.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - A non_null annotation attached to a model field is now
          translated into the type invariant. E.g., from a non_null
          model field, say x, a predicate of the form "model$x() !=
          null" is generated and conjoined to the invariant, where
          model$x is the model field access method for x. This fixes
          bug report 661824.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - In jmlc, fixed translation of model import statements, bug
          668195.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - In jmlc, fixed desugaring method specifications,
          esp. omitted requires clauses of behavior specification
          cases. This fixes bug no. 667505. Thanks to David Cok and
          Yoonsik Cheon. 
        - In jmlc, fixed the translation of old variables used as the
          receivers of method calls. Bug no. 14779. Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon. 
        - The jmlunit tool now produces sample test arrays
          of length 0, with a commented out example,
          rather than the previous one element.
          The test fixture check now checks that each vector has a
          non-zero length.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - Make the receivers array in jmlunit's output be declared
          with a fully qualified name.  This fixes bug 664732.
        - The jmlc and jmlunit tools now fully qualify class names from
          java.lang,  to avoid ambiguity with same-named classes in other
          packages.  Thanks to David Cok and Yoonsik Cheon.
        - Implemented an option on jml-junit (JMLTestRunner), -M, that enables
          collecting of information about meaningless tests and prints
          it out at the conclusion of a test run.  Thanks to David Cok.
        - There is the beginning of a new tool, whose main class is
          org.jmlspecs.racwrap.Main.  This generates runtime assertion
          checking in separate wrapper files. This version is not
          complete and somewhat preliminary.   Thanks to Roy Tan.
        - Tests are now much faster to run for developers.  Thanks to
          David Cok, Curtis Clifton, and Clyde Ruby.
        - The tools now support "Relaxed MultiJava" with the --relaxed
          flag; this syntax is off by default.  Thanks to Craig Chambers.
        - The syntax "resend" is not reserved when the --nomultijava
          option is given.  This fixes bug 700028.  Thanks to Curt Clifton.
        - MultiJava constant dispatchers are now parsed.  This fixes
          bug 656606.
   incompatible changes:
        - The jmldoc tool no longer works with J2SDK 1.3 and requires
          J2SDK 1.4.1 to work properly.  However, this means that users
          of J2SDK 1.4.1 no longer need to also install J2SDK 1.3.
        - jmldoc always uses the new javadoc algorithm for determining
          sentence breaks.  This is equivalent to javadoc using the
          -breakiterator option and is slightly different from both the
          the old behavior of jmldoc and the old behavior of javadoc.
        - The old syntax for the refine clause, refine A <- "A.java";
          is now deprecated.  Use refine "A.java"; instead.
        - Using a non-pure method in a specification is now an error.
        - The typechecker now produces an error message if a pure
          method has an assignable clause, though there are some
          exceptions, e.g., assignable \nothing, assignable
          \not_specified, and constructors (as a constructor of a pure
          class may have an assignable clause). Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - Initializers are no longer allowed in model (specification
          only) field declarations because there is no storage directly
          associated with these fields.  Field initializers 
          for non-model fields are only allowed in .java files.  A
          method body can only be defined in one file in a refinement
          sequence; also, the method body can only be defined in a .java
          file for non-model methods since that's where a compiler expects
          it to be. Thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - The hashCode and intern methods of java.lang.String are no
          longer specified as pure methods; in fact, they have side effects.

New with release 3.6 (January 7, 2003)
   minor improvements:
        - The installation instructions were clarified.
        - The jmlrac.bat script now works correctly. (Thanks to Judy
          Chan for reporting the bug).
        - The manual pages for the various tools now makes it clear
          that one has to compile using various JML runtime jar
          files in the CLASSPATH.  The jtest script was rewritten to
          do this.
        - The manual pages for the various tools, in particular
          jmlunit, attempt to clarify how to use JML/JUnit testing.
        - Caching of compilation unit ASTs has been refactored, in
          order to speed up checking and compilation by the various
          tools.  (Thanks to Curtis Clifton and also Clyde Ruby.)
        - In the jmlc tool, fixed the signature collision problem of
          normal postcondition check methods reported by Joe (Bug
          No. 660079).  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - In the jmlc tool, fixed the translation of \old expressions
          appearing in nested quantified expressions. (Thanks to Peter
          Chan for reporting this error and to Yoonsik Cheon for the
          fix.)
        - The output of floating point numbers in jmlc assertion
          violation messages now helps you see the exact value. (Thanks
          to David Cok)
        - Protected members can be used in jmlc's execution of
          specifications.  (Thanks to David Cok)
        - There is now some ability to use jmlc to test specifications
          against binaries when the source code is not available.
          This is supported by new options in jmlc and
          jmlunit. (Thanks to David Cok)
        - The String.jml file now has the the method
            String[] split(String regex)
          that is in J2SDK 1.4.  (Thanks to Judy Chan for reporting the error.)
        - The specifications of classes and interfaces from the JDK,
          especially Float, Double, Math, StrictMath, Vector, and
          BigInteger have been revised and corrected.  There are now
          some JML/JUnit tests for these.  (Thanks to David Cok)
        - The ant task for running jmldoc has had its null pointer
          exception problem fixed.  (Thanks to Marko van Doreen.)
   incompatible changes:
        - The jmlc tool has had the short form of its command-line
          option --noredundancy changed from -C to -Y.  (The old -C
          option collided with that of the inherited option
          --classpath.) Thanks to Marko van Doreen for the report and
          Yoonsik Cheon for the fix

New with release 3.5 (December 18, 2002)
   major improvements:
        - A new flag (--assignable, -a) is available on the checker,
          and other tools, that gives a caution when a specification
          case does not have an assignable clause (and is not in a
          pure method). (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The jmlc and jmlunit tools can now alter the package of
          generated files and to operate on specification files, using
          the --packageName (or -N) option. This helps with the
          testing of specifications of code that can't be modified.
          (Thanks to David R. Cok)
        - Fixed mjdoc and jmldoc so that they work with the JUnit GUI
          TestRunner. (Thanks to David R. Cok)
        - In pages produced by jmldoc, where the specifications inherited
          from overridden methods are listed, the full signature of the
          overridden method, with parameter names, is provided.  This is
          a stopgap measure - we would really like to rename the uses of
          parameters.  (Only shown where there are specifications and there
          are parameters) (Thanks to David R. Cok)
        - The jmlunit tool generates output that does far less
          redundant "setUp" work and also gives the user more control.
          Users are able to tailor the test data to the method being tested.
   minor improvements:
        - Fixes to refinement. (Thanks to Clyde Ruby)
          (1) Cycles are disallowed in a refinement sequence and an
          error message is issued if a cycle is detected.
          (2) A refining method must have the same parameter names as
          the method it refines so specifications will be consistent
          without requiring renaming of variables.
          (3) A level 2 warning is issued if an overriding method
          inherits a specification from an overriden method with
          different parameter names.  To get the typechecker to issue
          these messages, the "-w3" option must be used on the command
          line.  (Such inherited specifications require variable
          renaming to be "sensible" in the context of the refining
          method).
          (4) The most refined declaration of a type must be in a file
          with the same name as that type; further, the suffix of that
          file must be the most active.  These requirements are so the
          type loader will properly load the entire refinement
          sequence so all variables and methods will be available for
          that type, although not necessarily visible (depending on
          the visibility modifiers).  This is similar to the
          requirement for .java files containing public class or
          interface declarations in Java.  In addition, this makes the
          "jml ." and "jml <directory>" commands work properly.
        - If a method has both "synchronized" and "pure" modifiers,
          the typechecker produces a warning message at level 2
          complaining that a synchronized method can't be pure.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The jmlrac script now includes the junit.jar and
          jmljunitruntime.jar files so that people can use our
          testrunner from jmlrac.  Also fix a scripting error in jml-junit.
        - The jmlc tool now produces declarations that are transient
          to try to avoid serialization problems, although more work
          is needed on this. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - Fixing the translation of \TYPE in jmlc. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - Fix to the compilation of NaN in mjc. (Thanks to Curtis Clifton)
        - The jmlc tool now uses fully qualified names to avoid
          conflicts with classes named Float and Double in other
          packages; also MIN_VALUE and MAX_VALUE are supported as
          output formats for floats and doubles. (Thanks to David R. Cok)
        - Fixing pretty-printing of local inner classes. A local class
          declaration should not have a "static" modifier, but one is
          added during type checking if the class appears inside a
          static method.  The added "static" modifier was printed
          before, thus causing a compilation error during the second
          round of compilation for RAC. (Thanks to Peter Chan and
          Yoonsik Cheon)
        - Better pretty-printing of field reference expressions;
          generated prefix expressions (e.g., C1.C2 in C1.C2.n) are not
          printed.  (Thanks to Peter Chan and Yoonsik Cheon)
        - Fixed pretty-printing of variable declaration statements;
          before, a statement with multiple variable declarations,
          e.g., "int x, y;" was printed as multiple statements, e.g.,
          "int x; int y;", causing trouble for the initializer
          statement of "for" loops. (Thanks to Peter Chan and Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The jmlc tool now has the method getSurrogate throw a
          non-executable exception instead of returning null when the
          delegee is not jmlc compiled.  This fixes the bug report 653014.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - \TYPE is now equivalent to java.lang.Class. (Thanks to David R. Cok)
        - Fixed a bug in the implementation of asserts that caused spurious
          definite assignment errors. (Thanks to Todd Millstein)
        - Fixed the error that jmlc demands implementations of
          interface methods such as equals, hashCode, etc. even though
          the implementing class of the interface provides them by
          inheriting from the class Object. This error was caused by
          the initialization of the second round compilation in an
          improper order; i.e., CStdType.initSession() should follow
          initClassLoader(...), not the other way around. Thanks to
          both Peter Chan and Joe Kiniry for reporting this error.
        - Enabled runtime assertion checks for finalizers. For
          finalizers, instance invariants and instance constraints are
          not checked in the post-state, but all other assertions are
          checked as usual. In particular, static invariants and
          static constraints are checked in the post-state.  (Thanks
          to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The mjc and jml tools no longer complain about package names
          that end in .java, as reported by Marko van Dooren.
          (Thanks to David R. Cok)
        - Added a specification of java.util.Map. (Thanks to Katie Becker)
        - Added a class org.jmlspecs.models.JMLNullSafe as a
          convenience for specifiers.  (Thanks to Katie Becker)
        - Fixed an error in the implementation of the JML...Bag types,
          which involved an incorrect recursive call. (Thanks to Joe
           Kiniry for reporting this.)
        - Various fixes to the specifications of samples and JDK
          methods, found using the -a flag of the checker.
        - Some minor fixes to the specfication of the JML...Relation types.
        - The documentation, especially for developers, has been
          updated to reflect our move to sourceforge.net.
        - Platform indepence and speed improvements in the testing of
          JML. (Thanks to David R. Cok)
   incompatible changes:
        - The JML tools now work with JUnit 3.8.1, but some things
          (compilation from sources, and org.jmlspecs.jmlunit.JMLTestRunner)
          no longer work with JUnit 3.7.
        - The checker (jml), RAC compiler (jmlc), and jmldoc now
          check specification expressions for purity and issue caution
          messages by default.  The old default for the -p flag is
          thus inverted.
        - The default for an omitted assignable clause in a
          heavyweight specification has been changed to \everything
          instead of \nothing.  You can use the checker's -a
          (or --assignable) flag to find heavyweight specification
          cases whose meaning may have been changed by the default.
          (Thanks to Erik Poll for the pressing this issue, Stephen
          Edwards for discussions that lead to the -a flag, and Yoonsik Cheon
          for the implementation of that flag.)
        - The jmlunit tool produces different output than before, and
          its output is incompatible with the previously generated
          _JML_TestCase files.  To convert your code do the following
          for each _JML_TestCase file you have, on Unix do:

              mv MyType_JML_TestCase.java MyType_JML_TestCase.java.old
              jmlunit MyType.java

          or on Windows do:

              rename MyType_JML_TestCase.java MyType_JML_TestCase.java.old
              jmlunit MyType.java

          then edit the files MyType_JML_TestCase.java and
          MyType_JML_TestCase.java.old to copy the test data from the
          old file to the places indicated in the new file.
        - The jmlunit tool now produces test$FixtureInitialization
          methods that complain if less than two pieces of data are
          provided for a fixture variable.

New with release 3.4 (October 31, 2002)
   major improvements:
        - Ant tasks and some sample build files for running the JML
          tools with Ant are included in org.jmlspecs.ant.
          (Thanks to Marko van Dooren.)
        - The tools now are able to deal with package names, not just
          directories, on the command line. (Thanks to David Cok.)
        - The propagation of purity annotations from classes to
          non-static methods and from superclasses to subclasses now works.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - JML now properly handles Java assert statements (in Java 1.4).
          (Thanks to Todd Millstein and Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The syntax and checking of weak behavioral subtypes and
          constraint clauses with "for" parts are now supported.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The runtime assertion checker now checks loop invariants
          (maintaining) and variant functions (decreasing).
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The runtime assertion checker now handles exceptions and
          non-executable specifications in the context of equality operators
          in a way that is better (less confusing). (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The runtime assertion checker now can execute specifications
          of interfaces in JDK classes, such as java.util. 
        - The runtime assertion checker now can execute some model methods
          with bodies.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - In jmldoc, the -R/--recursive flag now applies to package names on
          the command line as well as directories. (Thanks to David Cok.)
   minor improvements:
        - The specifications that ship with JML now have purity
          annotations that pass the JML checker with the -p flag.
        - The specifications of java.lang.Object were improved.  In
          particular the protected specifications were loosened.
        - Informal descriptions now type check in measured_by clauses
          and loop variant (decreasing) clauses.
        - Added two new specification clauses: working_space and
          duration, which are to be used for performance
          specifications.  More operators are coming to support these.
        - The samples in subpackages set and table within
          org.jmlspecs.samples have implementations and better
          specifications and also give examples of JML/JUnit testing.
          (Thanks to Arthur Thomas, Katie Becker, and Steve Edwards.)
        - Various corrections to the specifications in
          org.jmlspecs.models. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - Fixed bug in checks for assignment to final variable when
          that variable is declared within a loop. (Thanks to Curtis Clifton.)
        - Fixed a bug in the way that octal escape sequences in strings
          are unescaped. (Thanks to Todd Millstein.)
        - Fixed a bug on the translation of type cast expressions.
          (Thanks to Peter Chan and Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - Fixed a bug where type checking would signal an error that a
          reference to some class C is ambiguous, even though only one
          of the two associated classes is accessible in the current context.
          (Thanks to Todd Millstein.)
        - The typechecking of multimethods was fixed. (Thanks to
          Curtis Clifton and Todd Millstein.)
        - The runtime assertion checker has many improvements,
          including fixes to the handling of assert and assume
          statements, a way to turn off assume statement checking,
          checking of hence_by statements, allowing labeled loop
          statements to have loop invariants, checking of static
          invariants at the end of class initialization, more refined
          error types to make tracking of violations easier in other
          tools, checks invariants before preconditions, printing of
          the values of \old() expressions in violation messages,
          printing of assertion violation messages when toString or
          hashCode fails, and performance improvements to assertion
          checking.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The jmldoc tool now puts semicolons at the end of the
          specifications it outputs.
        - JMLTestRunner now gives better warnings when all tests are
          meaningful. (Thanks to Steve Edwards and David Cok.)
        - The jmlc and jmlunit tools now accept package names on the
          command-line.  These package names are found in the sourcepath and
          then in the classpath.  The --recursive flag will cause all
          subdirectories of both packages and directories to be processed.
          (Thanks to David Cok.)
   incompatible changes:
        - Object's equals method is now specified as pure.  This means
          that JML now demands that methods named equals that take an Object
          as an argument have to be side-effect free, and even
          benevolent side effects in such methods are disallowed.


New with release 3.3 (September 21, 2002)
   major improvements:
        - The JML type checker now performs visibility checking in assertions.
          So public specifications can only use public attributes,
          for example.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The JML type checker now prohibits the use of =, +=, ++, --, etc.
          in assertions.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The tools now support Java assert statements and understand
          the -source command-line option (from javac).  (Thanks to
          Curtis Clifton and Todd Millstein.)
        - The runtime assertion checker now gives error messages for
          assertion violations that include useful debugging
          information (e.g., values of parameters, fields, \result,
          the exception thrown, this, etc.).  Also, the label of a
          labeled expression is printed as a part of the assertion
          violation. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The runtime assertion checker generates better messages for
          non_null annotation violations. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - More control over the runtime assertion checking compiler.
          The jmlc tool now has an option, --noredundancy (-C),
          for disabling runtime assertion checking for redundant
          specifications, such as requires_redundantly and
          ensures_redundantly.   (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The jmldoc tool now displays model methods, constructors,
          and inner classes in separate sections. It also separates
          out model fields from normal fields. (Thanks to David Cok.)
        - The jmldoc tool now has an extension to javadoc in which
          unqualified class references in see/link tags in a
          package.html file are resolved if they are in the
          same package as the package.html file.  (Thanks to David Cok.)
   minor improvements:
        - The installation procedure has been clarified, especially
          with respect to installing and running jmldoc.  There is
          also a helpful script bin/Install-JML-Scripts for installing
          scripts on Unix or cygwin platforms.
        - The jtest.bat file in bin now works. (Thanks to Fermin R. Da
          Costa Gomez for a bug report and the fix.) 
        - Fixes to parsing of Java's primary expressions, accessibility
          checks for protected nested types, and in processing large
          collections of files.  (Thanks to Curtis Clifton.)
        - Corrected parsing of JML example clauses; the parser now
          distinguishes between light-weight and heavy-weight example
          specifications. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - A new option on jml, jmlc, and jmldoc, --purity (-p),
          to enable purity checking. When this option is used,
          cautions are issued about non-pure methods used in
          assertions.  This option is turned off by default.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The jmlc and jmlunit tools now recognize the -d option in
          combination with -P. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon for the fix
          and to Marko van Dooren for the bug report.)
        - The jmlc and jmlunit tools no longer attempt to compile
          their own generated files (i.e., jmlc no longer tries to
          compile .gen files or the _JML_Test.java and
          _JML_TestCase.java files that are the output of jmlunit, and
          jmlunit no longer ties to compile for testing its output
          _JML_Test.java, and _JML_TestCase.java files).
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon for the fix and to Marko van Dooren
          for the bug report.)
        - Single hyphen options are supported by our option processing
          code.  (Thanks to Curtis Clifton for discovering this.)
          This and the lack of "toggling" are now described better on
          the relevant the manual pages.
        - The runtime assertion checker now properly catches
          non-executable exceptions thrown by range predicates of
          quantified expressions. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - Improvements to the org.jmlspecs.samples.sets examples.
        - Better description of how options work on the manual pages.
   incompatible changes:
        - The MultiJava parser on which JML is based now makes
          "resend" a reserved word, unless the -M flag is used to turn
          off the MultiJava syntax.


New with release 3.2 (August 18, 2002)
   major improvements:
        - The ESC/Java "helper" annotation is now supported in the runtime
          assertion checker.  (This was actually in release 3.1.)
        - The runtime assertion checker now has an option, -F, that
          compiles specification inheritance without using Java's
          reflection API.  This can be used to make faster, but less
          flexible, tests.  It is still somewhat under development.
        - The runtime assertion checker now processes spec_public and
          spec_protected methods.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The runtime assertion checker now executes the \elemtype operator
          in assertions.  (Thanks to Erik Poll and Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The jmlunit tool now can deal properly with testing
          package-visible classes.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The jmlunit tool now tests constructors, and also tests
          whether assertions are compiled with the runtime assertion
          checker (jmlc).
        - jmldoc now supports the -group option and uses it in preparing the
          documentation for JML; -help for jmldoc now has a complete list of
          options; annotation modifiers on methods, constructors, and formal
          arguments are displayed; informal predicates utilize html special
          characters where appropriate; ghost fields and model fields are
          displayed (separately), in a way similar to how javadoc displays
          fields; spec_public and spec_protected are now used to determine
          whether to include members and annotations in html files.
          (Thanks to David Cok)
        - Much work on the reference manual, in the introduction and in the
          sections on method specifications and invariants (Thanks to
          Erik Poll).  This now begins to be useful.
   minor improvements:
        - The documentation that ships with the release is now more complete.
        - Various clarifications and improvements to the preliminary
          design document, in particular with respect to purity and
          details of the expressions added to Java.
        - Various type checking bug fixes.  Model methods in
          now correctly do not require a body.  Also .jml files are
          now processed entirely in JML annotation mode.
        - Various bug fixes to the runtime assertion checker (Thanks
          to Yoonsik Cheon).
        - The collection types in org.jmlspecs.models now have
          conversion operations to convert among themselves
          (toBag, toSet, toSequence) and arrays (toArray).
          Various other improvements to these specifications have been
          made.
        - Improvements to the specifications of the java.lang and
          java.util packages. (Thanks to Brandon Shilling)
        - The tools now return a proper status code to the operating
          system. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The checker no longer has an exception when a missing
          operator is left out of an expression. (Thanks to Curt Clifton)
        - jmldoc (and mjdoc): creating links via -link was temporarily 
          broken in the 3.1 release; that is now fixed
        - jmldoc(and mjdoc) bugs fixed: static initializers are
          no longer listed in the index; comments are inherited from
          interfaces when there is no comment in a class; @see tags
          with references to fields and to constructors now create
          viable links. (Thanks to David Cok)
   incompatible changes:
        - The default for invariants and constraints in interfaces is
          static, so in interfaces they no loner can refer to instance
          fields unless the "instance" modifier is present.
        - jmldoc no longer supports the obsolete options --usejavadoc,
          --nousejavadoc, --embedded, --undo, --htmlLevel (use
          -private, -protected, -package, -public for htmlLevel),
          --link (use -link), --linkoffline (use -linkoffline).
        - In jmldoc, the -D option is now declared an error because it
          can be interpreted as either -d or --deprecation.
        - The collection types (sets, bags, sequences) in the
          org.jmlspecs.models package asserted that the elementType was
          the least upper bound on the elements in the collection.  This
          was not true--it's only an upper bound.
        - The org.jmlspecs.models.JML*Relation types have a different
          method for "elements" than previously; this is to make the
          type more uniform with the other collections.
        - The org.jmlspecs.models.JMLModel*Set types now have methods
          instead of variables, which makes a few of the methods useful.


New with release 3.1 (July 31, 2002)
   major improvements:
        - Fixed bugs in lexical analysis found in JML 3.0 that caused
          JML keywords to be treated as reserved words and prevented
          some legal names from being used in specifications.
          (Thanks to Curt Clifton)
        - The refine clause now works, at least for type checking
          purposes. (Thanks to Clyde Ruby)  It currently doesn't work
          for runtime assertion checking or jmldoc.
        - The tools now check whether 'also' is used correctly in
          specifications.  (Thanks to David Cok)
        - Assertion violation exceptions are now subclasses of
          java.lang.Error, in order to avoid problems where code
          catches java.lang.Exception.  
        - The runtime assertion checker is significantly improved and
          now works for most specfications.  It has been extensively
          tested in the development of the JML model types.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The runtime assertion checker now handles ghost variables
          and set statements.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The runtime assertion checker now supports \TYPE, and type
          expressions including the \typeof, \type, and <: operators.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The runtime assertion checker now supports non_null
          annotations to method return values. (These did not even
          parse in JML 3.0)
        - Assertion checking is turned off during construction of an
          object.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - Improvements to the output of jmlunit, which should make it
          easier to write the test data classes. (Thanks to Yoonsik
          Cheon) The jmlunit tool now checks for proper fixture
          initialization and also tests constructors.  It has been
          extensively used in testing the JML model types.
        - The jmldoc tool no longer relies on running javadoc first.
          It's default behavior is to use the infrastructure of the
          multijava compiler (mjdoc) instead. This release also
          contains bug fixes and minor improvements to jmldoc;
          the current status is described in the package.html and TODO.txt
          files in org/jmlspecs/jmldoc.  (Thanks to David Cok for all
          of the work on jmldoc)
        - The jmldoc tool now has a Model Fields section
          similar to the Fields sections, in which model fields are
          documented.  (Thanks to David Cok)
        - The classes in the org/jmlspecs/models directory now have
          better specifications and javadoc comments for all methods.
          These no longer use the refine clause, so that they can be
          used with tools that don't implement the refine clause.
          In particular the enumerator types have been significantly
          better specified; their specifications also dovetail with
          ESC/Java.  The collection types also maintain the
          elementType ghost variable to work better with ESC/Java.
          There is also a package overview that gives some
          orientataion to using the org.jmlspecs.models package in
          org/jmlspecs/models/package.html, which is accessible from the
          javadocs that ship with the release.
        - New model classes in org.jmlspecs.models include JMLDouble
          and JMLFloat. (Thanks to Joe Kiniry for the suggestion and
          to Brandon Shilling for the specifications.)
   minor improvements:
        - The runtime assertion checker now checks redundant pre- and
          postconditions. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The runtime assertion checker has better handling of
          quantified expressions; e.g., (\forall D; p ==> q)  is checkable
          and \old expressions in quantifiers are checkable.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The runtime assertion checker now has better handling of
          signals clause, including support for java.lang.Throwable. 
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - The runtime assertion checker now has better handling of
          dynamic calls for spec_public/protected and model variables.
          (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - Several other bug fixes to the runtime assertion checker,
          including fixes to pretty-printing problems such for
          floating point infinity and NaN, unicode characters, loop
          statements, etc. (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon)
        - More specifications of parts of the JDK in specs/java/lang.
          (Thanks to Brandon Shilling)  These specifications are now
          compatible with ESC/Java.
        - A draft of the org.jmlspecs.models.resolve package is included.
        - The org.jmlspecs.jmlunit.JMLTestRunner now warns if it looks
          like assertion checks are not being executed during testing.
   incompatible changes:
        - The classes for assertion violations in the runtime
          assertion checker have been renamed from JMLAssertionException
          to JMLAssertionError, etc.
        - The specifications of java.lang.Iterator and
          java.lang.ListIterator provided in the specs directory no
          longer have the model sequence nextElements, because an
          iterator does not necessarily iterate over a finite
          collection.
        - The -t option to jmlunit now has the opposite default to its
          former value.
        - The deprecated index method of JMLObjectSequence and
          JMLValueSequence has been removed.
        - The interface CharSequence was removed from the
          org.jmlspecs.models package.

New with release 3.0 (June 5, 2002)
   major improvements:
        - A complete reimplementation of the tools, including the
          checker, runtime assertion checker compiler, and jmldoc, based on the
          MultiJava compiler.  This solves many previous problems,
          especially the problems with type checking of nested/inner
          classes.  Thanks to Curtis Clifton for the MultiJava infrastructure.
        - New jmlunit and jtest scripts provide for integration of the
          runtime assertion checker with JUnit.
        - The runtime assertion checker can handle model and ghost
          variables, even in interfaces.  Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon for
          his work on the runtime assertion checker.
        - The runtime assertion checker now generates bytecode
          directly and there is now JMLOUTDIR used by the tools.
        - The checker and tools now can use type checking information
          from Java .class files and from jar files, as in the JDK, so
          it is no longer necessary to have unzipped the JDK's sources
          to run the JML tools.
   minor improvements:
        - Many minor bugs have been fixed in the tools.
        - Redesigned options processing for the scripts.
        - The order of clauses in most parts of a method specification
          is no longer dictated by the syntax, although there is still
          a distinction between the spec-var-decls ("forall" and "old"
          clauses) spec-header ("requires" clauses) and the body
          (other clauses).
        - A store-ref-expression can be used on the left hand side of
          a "depends" or "represents" clause.
        - The JML tools now (by default) understand MultiJava source code
          constructs (although integration is largely untested).
   incompatible changes:
        - The "refines" clause does not work in the tools currently,
          although we hope to have that working in the next release.
          Similarly, not all suffixes related to refinement work.
        - The models are now found in the org.jmlspecs.models package.
          There is a perl script in bin/updatemodelspackage that may
          be useful to you in changing your specifications to use this
          package. 
        - The conjoinable specification syntax ("and") has been
          deleted, because it was too non-modular.
        - The syntax of a spec-header no longer contains the "when" clause
          and the "measured" clause, since these are not just about
          the pre-state. Thus these clauses must be repeated in
          different specification cases.
        - The "model" keyword is no longer used for "old" declarations
          (formerly "let" declarations).
        - Previously deprecated forms (esp. "let") have been removed.
        - See also the incompatible changes noted below on the 2.9 release.
        - This has only been tested with JDK 1.3.1 and 1.4.0.
          We no longer guarantee compatability with JDK 1.2 or earlier.

New with release 2.9 (a perpetual alpha release December-Feb. 2001)
   major improvements:
        - A new script, jmlc, can be used to compile a class with
          assertion checking in one step.
        - New functionality has been added to generate a test oracle
          from a JML specification. The idea is to combine JML
          and JUnit, more specifically to use the JML runtime
          assertion checker to determine a JUnit test's results.
          A JUnit test class can be generated by the JML option --junit
          (e.g., jml --junit Foo.java). 
        - A shell script, jtest, has been written to help in using
          JML's test class generation capability. It generates and
          compiles both a JUnit test class and a runtime checking
          enabled Java class.
        - The runtime assertion checker recognizes "assert" statements
          and throws an exception if the assertion is not satisfied.
        - The runtime assertion checker checks and throws an exception
          if the control reaches the JML "unreachable" statement.
        - The non_null modifier is now accepted for formal parameters,
          as in ESC/Java.
   minor improvements:
        - The runtime assertion checker reports assertion failures as
          different kinds of exceptions such as JMLPreconditionError,
          JMLPostconditionError, JMLInvariantError, etc.
        - Two kinds of precondition violations are distinguished and 
          reported appropriately, JMLPreconditionError and
          JMLInternalPreconditionError. (These names are changed
          slightly in the 3.0 release.)  The later denotes precondition
          violations that occur during the execution of a method's body.
        - Assertion violations that occur during the execution of a method's
          body are transparently propagated to the outer level. That is, 
          there is now no confusion by the runtime assertion checker 
          between exceptions reporting assertion violations and those that
          are caused by the user program.
        - Several classes in the package java.awt now have
          specification files, which allows the checker to get around
          errors that would otherwise occur because of missing classes in the
          sun.* packages and use of "assert".
        - Some updates in the JML/JDK/java/lang directory to reflect
          updates in the JDK 1.4, particularly to the class Character.
        - Class invariants are checked only for instance methods by 
          the runtime assertion checker.  Future work is needed to
          distinguish between class and instance invariants, and also
          to consider privacy (public, protected, private and package) of
          invariant specifications. 
        - The model types JMLShort, JMLChar, JMLLong, JMLInteger,
          JMLByte, JML..Set, JML..Bag, and JML..Sequence are now parsable by
          ESC/Java, and checked by it.  Several small but subtle bugs
          have been fixed in these types.
        - The model types JMLObjectSequence and JMLObjectBag now have
          junit test cases.
        - A hashCode method has been added to the JML model types,
          so that these fulfill the hashCode contract defined by
          java.lang.Object. 
        - A small improvement in speed of
          edu.iastate.cs.jml.checker.Key's equals method may help the
          execution speed of the JML checker somewhat. 
        - A new samples directory, dirobserver, has been added.
   incompatible changes:
        - The compareTo methods in JML...Bag, JML...Sequence, and
          JML...Set, have been deleted, and these types are no longer
          JMLComparable types.  This was a logical mistake, as these
          types are not totally ordered.
        - The deprecated methods in
          edu.iasatate.cs.jml.models.JMLObjectBag and JMLValueBag
          (named isSubBag and isProperSubBag) have been removed (in
          favor of isSubbag and isProperSubbag).
        - The deprecated type JMLOrderedType has been removed (use
          JMLComparable instead).
        - Junit is needed for developer-style testing of release in the
          models directory.
        - This release may no longer be compatible with JDK 1.1

New with release 2.8 (date: 6 August 2001)
   major improvements
        - This release both compiles and passes almost all of our
          tests under JDK 1.1.8 (the failures are invalid page faults,
          which may be problems in the 1.1.8 version of the JDK's gc).
          However, it does so by including some specifications of the JDK
          (e.g., java.util.Iterator) that are not part of JDK 1.1,
          in JML/JDK/java/lang.  Hence, the JML checker will permit
          calls to operations that are not actually part of JDK 1.1.
          On the other hand, if you also type check using javac, this
          is not a problem.
   minor improvements
        - The "instance" modifier can be combined with "ghost" (in interfaces)
        - More of the builtin types of the JDK are specified,
          including Iterator and ListIterator.
        - Some corrections to the specification of java.util.Vector,
          which has been brought up to JDK 1.4 standards.
        - A .spec file for BigInteger is included to work around a bug
          in JML in the JDK 1.1 sources for BigInteger.java.

New with release 2.7 (date: 2 August 2001)
   major improvements
        - The runtime assertion checker now works for preconditions,
          invariants, and even for postconditions,
          These work with inherited and refined specifications as well,
          and model variables work, except for model variables that
          come from other files.  (Thanks to Yoonsik Cheon for this.)
        - The checker now does renaming properly for the --html and
          --assertc options, thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.  This seems to
          also fix the differences between running the checker on "."
          versus various named files.
        - The runtime assertion checker no longer leaves "==>" and
          other non-Java operators in assertions (see justprecond.java).
        - A new model type, JMLDataGroup has been added to the
          edu.iastate.cs.jml.models package, for use in declaring
          "data groups" (a la Rustan Leino's OOPSLA '98 paper).
        - The code for the model classes
          JML{Value,Object}ToObjectRelation.java and
          JML{Value,Object}ToObjectRelationEnumerator, and the
          corresponding map types, now properly does not clone the
          objects in the range. 
        - The checker now parses Java's new (in JDK 1.4) assert statement.
          These are treated as JML assertions if they are within
          annotations.  JML's assume statements now have a similar
          syntax to the assert statement.
   minor improvements
        - The type checker now properly does checking of casts between
          interface types (see the good test AbstractTransactedMemory.java,
          thanks to Erik Poll for pointing out the bug).
        - An option has been added to the checker to supress the date
          on the --html output.  This may be helpful in regression
          testing (Thanks to David R. Cok).
        - The code for runtime assertion checking has been refactored
          and cleaned up somewhat, thanks to Yoonsik Cheon.
        - The type checker now treats assignment expressions correctly
          (see assignment_in_expression.java).
        - The README.txt file has a more extensive troubleshooting
          section.
        - Various minor clarifications and corrections to the
          preliminary design document. (Thanks to Tim Wahls and
          Yoonsik Cheon.)
        - The runtime checker no longer copies axioms to output files
          (thanks to Yoonsik Cheon).
        - Fixed the runtime.jar file in the distribution to be useful
          (thanks to Yoonsik Cheon).
        - The Makefile for the checker now properly regenerates the
          java and .class files for the runtime checker grammars
          (thanks to Yoonsik Cheon).
        - The Makefiles in the tests directories now use diff -w to
          compare files, which should help with line termination
          differences.
        - The Makefiles now do more extensive checking of the runtime
          assertion checker.
        - The memory limit on the jml and jmldb shell scripts has been
          increased to 128MB.
        - Unparsing of axioms has been corrected (see axiom_test.java).
        - Fixed the JMLFiniteInteger class so it compiles under JDK 1.1.
        - Fixed specification errors in JML/JDK/java/lang/System.jml
          arraycopy (Thanks to Erik Poll).
        - Made JML compile under JDK 1.4.
        - The word "threadsafe", which is no longer reserved in Java,
          is no longer reserved in JML's checker (Thanks to Curtis Clifton.)
   incompatible changes:
        - Previously deprecated syntax has now been removed.

New with release 2.6 (date: 21 May, 2001)
   major improvements
        - The preliminary design document now has useful indexes.
        - The syntax in the preliminary design document's appendix B
          now has hyperlinks, so that one can click on the use of a
          nonterminal, and jump to its definition.
        - The checker now makes sure that only model variables can be
          used on the left hand sides of depends and represents clauses.
          It now checks the types of represents clauses that use the <- form.
          (concrete_represents.java)
        - JML now ignores multiple asterisks (*) at the beginning and
          end of documentation comments, and at the beginning of each
          line of a documentation comment.  This gives better
          conformance to Java's standard for documentation comments.
        - Similarly, JML now ignores multiple at-signs (@) at the beginning and
          end of annotations, and at the beginning of each
          line of an annotation.  This gives better compatibility with
          ESC/Java version 1.2.4.
   minor improvements
        - The file esc-jml-diffs.txt has been updated to reflect the
          current differences between ESC/Java and JML.
        - The LALR(1) grammar for JML, and its lexical counterpart,
          (jml.y and jml.l in edu/iastate/cs/jml/checker/) have been
          corrected, thanks to Clyde Ruby.  Also included in the
          release is source for a C++ program that tests the LALR(1) grammar.
        - The JML parser handles documentation comments that are out
          of place slightly better than before. 
        - The treatment of at-signs after paragraph tags in HTML
          output has been improved.
        - Overrides of methods from nested classes no longer give null
          pointer exceptions (see OverrideNestedClassMethod.java).
        - Unresolved "PlaceHolder"s no longer occur when the first
          reference to a type is an array element (UnresolvedPlaceholder.java).
        - The checker no longer complains about methods inherited from
          interfaces that are not implemented in non-.java files
          (which is okay if one is writing a file to be refinement).
        - Unparsing with --unparse no longer throws away a type's
          documentation comments.
        - The search for files that are JML files in a directory, and
          the jmlstartfiles utility, now correctly deal with files with
          class names that are prefixes of other class names in the
          same directory.
        - The various filename suffixes are now documented in the
          preliminary design document.
        - Slightly better documentation for the model classes,
          including an entry in the index for JMLModelObjectSet
          and JMLModelValueSet.
        - Added new model interface edu.iastate.cs.jml.models.JMLComparable.
        - Added compareTo methods to many of the model types.
        - The DOS batch files in bin now restore the CLASSPATH, so
          that they don't use up all the environment space.
   incompatible changes:
        - Misspelled methods in the implementation of
          edu.iastate.cs.jml.models.JMLValueBag and JMLObjectBag have been
          deprecated in favor of the correctly spelled methods.
        - The interface edu.iastate.cs.jml.models.JMLOrderedType
          has been deprecated in favor of JMLComparable.
          JMLOrderedType doesn't follow the naming conventions of the other
          model classes for its methods.

New with release 2.5 (date: April 15, 2001)
   major improvements
        - Thanks to David Cok, several fixes to the treatment of
          nested and inner classes (InnerType*.java). Nested classes
          with private members are now handled better, and the scope of nested
          classes is handled better.  The "Access denied as member is
          private" error no longer occurs (WindowManager.java).
        - The \reach syntax has been extended to allow limiting the
          types of the reachable objects and the fields through which objects
          can be reached.
        - Fixed the grammar so that it properly parses local nested classes
          (as statements), array declarators before .class, gives
          instanceof the proper precedence, has the right grammar for
          cast expressions, and checks properly for octal character
          escapes.  Thanks to Clyde Ruby for corresponding fixes to
          the jml.y grammar file.
        - Unknown paragraph tags in documentation comments are now
          ignored, and no longer cause errors.
        - JML now parses and ignores ESC/Java's nowarn pragmas (Thanks
          to David R. Cok for help with this).
        - Method specification can now also appear between the method
          header and the method body (which is considered to be the semicolon
          for an abstract method).  This allows better compatibility with
          ESC/Java, and was requested by other groups.
        - The modifier non_null now works as a modifier on local
          variable declarations.
        - The scope of a declaration in the initializer of a for loop
          now properly includes the loop invariant and variant function.
        - One can now declare free variables whose scope is a whole
          specification case (i.e., that are universally quantified
          over a whole specification case), using the syntax "forall T x;"
          as documented in the grammar under spec_var_decls.
   minor improvements:
        - New types in the models directory JMLResources, JMLInfiniteInteger,
          JMLFiniteInteger, JMLPositiveInfinity, JMLNegativeInfinity,
          which can be used to model infinite precision integers with an
          infinity at each end, and Hehner's time variable.
        - Various clarifications in the reference manual (thanks to
          Erik Poll and Arnd Poetzsch-Heffter).
        - HTML conversion now escapes <, &, and >, when they occur in
          informal descriptions.  Internal newlines in informal
          descriptions are also indented more reasonably.
        - HTML pages generated with --html now have a title (thanks to
          David Cok).
        - Documentation comments that occur before an annotation are
          no longer ignored, and make it into the HTML pages
          (DocCommentBeforeAnnotations.java).
        - There is a --quiet flag that goes at the end of the options
          for the JML checker, which suppresses reports about what the
          checker is doing (although errors and warnings are still
          printed).  This flag is also used in the regression tests,
          which result in much less text to wade through.
        - Column numbers in error messages are closer to reality
          but seem to be one too high.
        - Final modifiers are not inappropriately applied to classes
          when used to declare locals (ExtendFinal.java).
        - The modifier spec_public now works correctly across packages
          (see tests/good/Pd.java, Pda.java), thanks to David R. Cok.
        - Array references are now given the right type
          (Decrement.java) and processed correctly (ArrayRef.java).
        - Array initializations now work right for multidimensional arrays
          (InitializedArray.java), thanks to David R. Cok.
        - Annotations can now use the syntax /*+@ ... @*/ and //+@
          as well as the usual /*@ ... @*/ and //@ syntax.  This
          allows one to use JML features that ESC/Java doesn't
          understand in a file that one also wants to use ESC/Java on.
        - The keywords "pre" and "post" can now be used as synonyms
          for "requires" and "ensures" (respectively).
        - Local specification variables can be declared with either
          "let model ..." or "let ghost..."
        - The JML checker no longer dies when the "weakly" syntax is
          used on a superclass.
        - Using operator new on an array of abstract classes (or
          interfaces) no longer gives an error.
        - Attempting to instantiate an interface now gives an error.
        - Comparing null with a variable of a reference type
          no longer gives an improper error message.
        - Use of return in a constructor no longer prompts
          an incorrect type error.
        - The parser now accepts multiple specifications within
          documentation comments (thanks to David Cok), and method
          specifications within documentation comments can be empty
          (EmptyAnnotation.java).
        - The Antlr grammar for JML (jml.g) no longer has duplication
          of syntax for statements and expressions; instead an
          inherited attribute is used to determine what constructs are
          permitted.  This should also result in better error messages
          if you use = instead of == in an assertion, for example.
          This is also reflected in the preliminary design document.
        - The various tree walkers now mostly inherit from jmltreewalker.g,
          resulting in much less duplication of grammar specifications
          among the antlr grammar files for JML.
        - The grammar files in the checker now use a uniform way to
          print debug messages, and don't convert ASTs to strings
          before calling the debug methods; this may make things faster.
   incompatible changes:
        - The "because" and "because_redundantly" keywords (used in
          making annotation proofs) have been replaced by
          "hence_by" and "hence_by_redundantly".  These indicate the
          correct direction of implication.  Thanks to Jeff Mohar and
          students in 22C:181 at the University of Iowa for this suggestion.
        - Development now requires Anltr 2.7.1 or higher.

New with release 2.4 (date: March 6, 2001)
   minor improvements:
        - The JML checker now correctly parses and type checks
          \TYPE, \typeof, \type, and <:.  Thanks to David Cok for
          pointing out the bugs and helping with fixes.
        - The syntax for model programs now allows jml-statements to
          be nested within other statements (such as while loops).
        - Arrays of \TYPE can be declared.
        - The preliminary design document now correctly documents
          non_null and \TYPE.
        - Test cases have been added for \TYPE, \typeof, \type, <:,
          and extended forms of specification statement in model programs.

New with release 2.3 (date: February 24, 2001)
   major improvements:
        - An extended syntax for quantifiers, along with the
          generalized quantifiers \min, \max, \sum, \product, and
          \num_of have been added to JML.  The extended syntax for
          quantifiers permits one to explicitly specify a range.
        - The grammar for specifications occurring as statements (in
          model programs) has been generalized to permit one to
          specify statements that terminate "abruptly" by continuing
          or breaking out of a loop, or by returning.
   minor improvements:
        - The keyword "assignable" has been added as another synonym
          for "modifiable" (and "modifies").
        - A new operator for expressions, <=!=> was added to allow one
          to specify inequality.  It has the same precedence as <==>.
        - Various small improvements to the preliminary design
          document, thanks to comments by Tim Wahls.
        - The JML tool's lexer now properly switches between modes for
          specifications that involve quantifiers.
        - The perl script in bin/nocolons will take out the deprecated
          colons in all the files you give it.  It also changes uses
          of "modifiable" to "assignable".
        - The parser driver now tells about warnings, instead of
          saying "no problems detected" for a field with warnings.
   deprecated syntax:
        - Use of colons (:) following the main clause keywords (like
          ensures), is now deprecated.
        - The quantifier syntax with parentheses around the variable
          declarations is now deprecated.
        - Use of right arrows (->) in depends clauses is now
          deprecated, in favor of left arrows (<-).


New with release 2.2 (date: December 21, 2000)
   major improvements:
        - More compatibility with the current version of ESC/Java.
          One can now use "modifies" as a synonym for "modifiable".
          The modifier "non_null" has been added.
          Also the statement "unreachable" has been added.
   minor improvements:
        - Various corrections and clarifications to the preliminary
          design document (thanks especially to Michael Ernst).
        - New syntax added to help verification: the primitive
          expressions \is_initialized() and \invariant_for()
          (as suggested by the group at the Univ. of Nijmegen).
        - In a "depends" clause one can now use either a left or right
          arrow (<- or ->).  The samples have been changed to use left arrows,
          and right arrows will be deprecated in a future release and
          eventually removed.
        - The bug where the runtime assertion checker left "==>" in invariant
          methods has been fixed.
        - The exception name used in the runtime assertion checker,
          while still not fresh, is less likely to cause clashes.
        - The syntax has been changed so "public_normal_behavior" is now
          "public normal_behavior", and in general all uses of
          public_, protected_, and private_ are eliminated, replacing
          the "_" with whitespace.  (Thanks to Joachim van den Berg
          for insisting on this.)
        - The type checker now uses the right type for \lockset.


New with release 2.1 (date: July 31, 2000)
   minor improvements:
        - JML now runs again, and can also be compiled, under JDK 1.1.
        - The modifier "ghost" can be used on local declarations.
        - Small improvements in the formatting of the HTML output of
          jml --html.
        - Clarification of terminology in the preliminary design
          document for referring to locations on which another location
          depends, which are now called "dependees" (thanks to Peter
          Mueller).
        - Clarification of the context-sensitive constraints on depends
          and represents clauses in the preliminary design document.
        - The release zip file should be smaller than 2.0, as the generated
          HTML files for the test cases and samples are not included.


New with release 2.0 (date: July 27, 2000)
   major improvements:
        - The syntax has been modified to put method specifications in
          front of the corresponding method declaration.  This
          completes JML's integration with the syntax of ESC/Java.
          This is an incompatible change, however.
        - The modifiable clause has a semantics that prohibits
          assignment to other locations.  This seems better for static
          enforcement, reasoning about concurrency, and avoiding temporary
          side effects.  This is another incompatible change.
        - The HTML generation has been much improved, thanks to Arun
          Raghavan.
        - The unparser, which is used by the run-time assertion checker,
          now properly handles model constructs, and doesn't generate
          nested comments.  It also does a better job of
          pretty-printing output.

   pretty nice improvements:
        - The JML checker now gives reasonable error messages when
          illegal characters appear in the input.
        - The antlr.jar file that ships with JML now has all
          the necessary class files in it.
        - The run-time checker now produces output that parses when
          used under Windows, because backslashes in filenames are escaped.
        - The checker now handles calls to synchronized methods
          properly.
        - The preliminary design document has been edited, and various
          sections clarified, especially the part about the modifiable
          clause.
        - The main documents and all specifications have been brought
          up to date with the new syntax.
        - The shell scripts now assume you have JDK 1.2.2 on Linux,
          and JDK 1.3 under Windows and cygwin.
        - The checker does a better job with inner classes, although
          it still has bugs in this area.

   incompatible changes:
        - The syntax has been changed to put method specifications in
          front of the corresponding method declaration.
        - The meaning of the modifiable clause has changed;
          it now has the more stringent requirement of only allowing
          assignment to the given locations and their dependents.


New with release 1.5 (date: May 29, 2000)
   major improvements:
        - Privacy restrictions in JML specifications are now correctly
          (and much more vigorously) enforced.  Lightweight method
          specifications now implicitly adopt the privacy level of the
          method being specified.
        - The HTML generation is much improved, and the top-level HTML
          file (now named JML.html) links to the specifications for
          the model directory (thanks to Arun Raghavan).  Various
          options have been added to the checker to better support
          HTML generation.
        - The checker is much faster, and deals avoids unnecessary
          disk access and parsing of files (thanks to Clyde Ruby).

   pretty nice improvements:
        - Support for JDK 1.3 (modifier "strictfp" and javadoc tag "@docRoot").
        - Various bug fixes (thanks to Clyde Ruby and Arun Raghavan).
          The runtime assertion generator doesn't die when run on
          various files.  More test cases added to
          ensure the checker will pass the JDK (some are still
          documented as bugs in the shouldbegood or shouldbebad directory).
        - Used of nested classes doesn't cause the checker to die, although
          the handling of private attributes in nested class isn't
          fixed yet (thanks to Clyde Ruby)
        - The makefiles now check the "bad" specifications and compare
          the error output against what was expected.
        - Corrections to the NEWS.txt file, including a note that
          the previous release fixed the treatment of refinement
          files.
        - The Antlr file FileLineFormatter.class is included
          in the distribution's antlr.jar file (thanks to Erik Poll).
        - The Unix and cygwin shell scripts for jml now work properly.
        - The jmlstartfiles script gives the files that jml will start
          on in the current directory.
        - More shell scripts added for developers (jmldb*).
        - Remaining known bugs have been documented in the BUGS.txt file.

   incompatible changes:
        - The brackets for nested specifications have been changed
          from {[ and ]} to {| and |}.
        - The \reach() syntax can no longer be used directly in a
          modifiable clause; use \fields_of(\reach(...) ...) instead.

New with release 1.4 (date: May 12, 2000)
   major improvements:
        - There is now support for run-time checking of preconditions,
          thanks to Abhay Bhorkar.  Use bin/jassertc to compile and
          bin/jassert to run such applications.
        - The checker now recognizes specifications in Java
          documentation comments that are enclosed in <jml> and </jml>
          or <esc> and </esc> tags, thanks to Arun Raghavan.
        - The checker now enforces privacy restrictions in
          specifications; the keywords that start model programs and
          heavyweight specifications and examples now all have privacy
          modifiers public_, protected_, or private_ (e.g., public_behavior).
          Lightweight specifications are implicitly public.  Thanks to
          Abhay Bhorkar and Clyde Ruby for help on this.
        - A still limited but somewhat useful capability of generating
          HTML from JML specifications, thanks to Arun Raghavan.
        - The syntax for modifiable clauses (and measured_by clauses)
          now allows for conditional specification with the "if" keyword.
        - Improvements and extensions to the syntax of
          conjoinable specifications (extending specifications that
          start with "and"), thanks to Arun Raghavan.
        - Refinements now are processed correctly, thanks to Abhay
          Bhorkar and Arun Raghavan.
 
   pretty nice improvements:
        - To make JML more compatible with ESC/Java, colons are now
          optional in the syntax.
        - To make JML more compatible with ESC/Java, the syntax of
          quantifier expressions now allows an unparenthesized single
          variable declaration.
        - The grammar has been changed to allow more flexible
          omission of clauses in specifications; a specification case
          need only have one clause, the others can be omitted and
          will take on default values.  For example, one can omit ensures
          or signals clauses in specifications, and one can also use
          just a requires clause in a specification.  The semantics of
          defaults have been made more systematic.  Multiple diverges
          clauses are allowed.
        - Changes to the syntax for subclassing contracts (to
          allow \other to be used, to allow \not_specified), thanks to
          Clyde Ruby.
        - The syntax of store references, used in modifiable clauses
          and other places, is now more expressive.  In particular it
          now allows mixing of field dereference and
          array accesses, as in modifiable: foo.x[3].bar.
        - \not_modified allows the use of \everything as an argument.
        - The driver for JML now works correctly in the presence of
          .refines-jml files.
        - The type checking of the initially, readable_if, and
          monitored_by clauses has been fixed.
        - The jml.y and jml.l files are now corrected and reflect the
          current state of JML, thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Updates to the documents.
        - The internal code of the checker has been improved
          in several respects, thanks to Abhay, Arun, Clyde,
          and Yogy Namara.
        - Some bugs in the model types were fixed.
        - More basic model types (JMLByte, ...) have been added, with the
          corresponding model sets.
        - Better error messages from the type checker.

   incompatible changes:
        - The naming scheme for the model sets in the models directory
          has been changed.
        - the getInt method of JMLInteger has been changed to intValue
          to conform more to the JDK.
        - The redundantly keyword is no longer supported.  The syntax
          has been changed to use keywords with _redundantly in them,
          thanks to Clyde Ruby.
        - Data refinement clauses have been removed.  (It was not
          possible type check these sensibly.)
        - \classlock has been removed, also from ESC/Java, because it
          is no longer needed in Java 1.1, as one can use T.class
          instead of \classlock(\type(T)).
        - \label has been changed (back) to \lblneg, for better
          conformance with ESC/Java.
        - The syntax of arguments to the JML checker now uses options
          that start with a double minus sign (like --unparse).

New with release 1.3 (date: December 20, 1999)
   major improvements:
        - (See the file esc-jml-diffs.txt in the release for differences
          from the 1.1 version of JML.)
        - Subclassing contracts (callable and accessible clauses) split out
          into their own section, because they don't work with "also"
        - Implications put into their own section (implies_that),
          and examples put into their own section (for_example)
        - The meaning of an example now is stronger, and allows it to be
          used as a test case.
        - Restricted syntax in the modifiable clause, with new \fields_of
          syntax for specifying the fields of objects or sets of objects
   pretty nice improvements:
        - Updates and reorganization of the documents.
        - Documents in texinfo format, which allows one to search the grammar
          in HTML format.
        - The Kluwer book chapter is included in the release.
        - Corrected syntax error recovery.
        - Added data refinement syntax (data_refine, ignores, respecify)
        - Because is now allowed as a regular statement (again).
        - Completion of compatibility with ESC/Java, including
          adding the operator <:.
        - Several improvements to the Makefiles to allow development
          outside of Iowa State more easily.
   incompatible changes:
        - The syntax of the extra parts of a specification,
          subclassing_contract, implies_that, and for_example is new.
        - The refine clause syntax now takes a list of names being refined

New with release 1.2 (date: November 22, 1999)
   major improvements:
        - giant syntax and semantics changes. See the file esc-jml-diffs.txt
        - no more dump files in the implementation
   incompatible changes:
        - many syntax changes make old specifications no longer parse;
          change behavior: to behavior for a start, but there won't be
          an easy way to make this change.

New with release 1.1 (date: August 13, 1999)
   major improvements:
        - Added the 'instance:' modifier for declaring model variables
          in interface declarations (the default is static).
        - You can now specify the effect of static and instance initializer
          blocks in classes using new keywords static_initializer: and
          initializer:
        - Bags were added as a new model type (JMLObjectBag and JMLValueBag).
        - The model class JMLChar was added.
        - Added ranges for arrays (a[e1 .. e2]),
          which can be used as a store-ref (e.g., in the modifiable: clause).
        - Added check to make sure set comprehensions are filtering sets
          (to avoid Russell's paradox), and added the classes JMLModelValueSet
          and JMLModelObjectSet with several built-in sets that
          can be filtered to produce other sets.
        - Operations like + and - Can now work on type char,
          as required by the JLS.
        - Corrected the typing of Java keywords 'this' and 'super'.
        - Corrected the typing of explicit constructor invocations,
          such as, this(x) or super(x, y).
        - The grammar now parses documentation comments
          (although producing html from these doesn't yet work).
   pretty nice improvements:
        - One can use super and this in the method-name-list of
          a callable: clause.
        - Added the choose() method to the JML...Set types.
        - Added the count() method to the JML...Sequence types.
        - Added the isSuffix() and isProperSuffix() methods to JML...Sequence.
        - The syntax of informal descriptions was put down into
          pred_primary_expr, this makes it possible, for example, to negate
          an informal predicate.
        - Some minor speed improvements by rewriting parts of
          the model list class using iteration instead of full recursion.
        - Changed the way modifiers are treated in the checker,
          which gives some minor speed improvements
        - Reorganized and simplified some of the code in the checker.
        - Corrected some problems in the scope of declarations imported
          by the refine clause.
        - Added another samples directory for lists, which illustrates
          refinement and subclassing features of JML
        - Added more test cases for the checker.
   incompatible changes:
        - The syntax of nondeterministic choice and if statements
          have changed.  The nondeterministic if-statement now uses if:,
          or: and else:.  The nondeterministic choice uses or: now
          instead of ||.
        - The maintaining: and decreasing: clauses now have mandatory
          semicolons at the ends
        - The method_name_list in a callable: clause now has a more
          restricted (and sensible) syntax.
        - The syntax of set comprehensions now requires that the predicate
          be of the form ``E.has(n) && P'', where n is the variable declared,
          and E is an arbitrary expression of some set type,
          and P is an arbitrary predicate.

New with release 1.0 (date: July 2, 1999)
   major improvements:
        - The type checker is mostly working now.
        - We have added several features from the refinement calculus.
   pretty nice improvements:
        - We now use ANTLR 2.6.1
   incompatible changes:
        - The syntax has been adapted to use keywords ending in colons,
          to avoid clashes with Java identifiers and allow easier parsing.


# Copyright (C) 2002 Iowa State University

# This file is part of JML

# JML is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
# any later version.

# JML is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.

# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with JML; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
# the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
