JMLE(l)								       JMLE(l)



NAME
       jmle - compile JML annotated files into executable (.class) files

SYNOPSIS
       jmle  [option]  ... file-or-directory-or-package [file-or-directory-or-
       package] ...
       The command jmle compiles JML class specifications  contained  in  Java
       and JML specification files into executable prototypes of the specified
       classes.	 Any Java(TM) code in method bodies  is	 ignored  -  only  the
       specifications  of methods are compiled.	 The output is .class file(s),
       which can be treated in much the same way as the	 output	 of  any  java
       compiler.  Note, however, that the .class files produced by jmle depend
       on classes in the org.jmlspecs.jmlexec package,	which  therefore  also
       need  to	 be  loaded.  These can be obtained from the file JML/bin/jml-
       release.jar in the JML release.	The JML release	 provides  the	script
       jmlre  which  adds  this	 jar file to the CLASSPATH and then runs java,
       which facilitates this loading process.	As the JML specifications  are
       translated  to  constraint programs, the resulting executables are sig-
       nificantly slower and use much more memory than	would  be  typical  of
       hand-coded implementations of the same specifications.

       The  class  files produced by jmle can be mixed with those generated by
       other Java compilers.  However, the specifications of all  superclasses
       and  implemented	 interfaces  (except  for  standard  Java(TM)  and JML
       library classes and interfaces) must be compiled by jmle , either prior
       to  compiling  the  class specification of interest or all together (on
       the same command line).	Similarly, if a specification  uses  instances
       of  classes  other  than	 standard Java(TM) or JML library classes, the
       specifications of those classes must also be compiled with jmle .   For
       refinement chains, only the file in the chain containing the specifica-
       tion that you wish to execute should be compiled using jmle .  Usually,
       this  would be the last file in the chain, but it need not be if you do
       not wish to execute all specifications in the refinement chain.

       The jmle script sets  the  CLASSPATH  and  then	runs  the  Java	 class
       org.jmlspecs.jmlexec.Main,  which does both syntax and type checking of
       Java and JML files, and then generates the JVM bytecode in class	 files
       for each of the Java files (i.e., for each .java or .jml file).

       If  the compiler finds an error, the file name, line number, and column
       number where the error  occurred	 are  reported.	  In  such  cases,  by
       default, processing stops and no output will be produced for the files.

       For a tutorial introduction on the basics of using jmle, see the	 EXAM-
       PLES section below.

OPTIONS
       The  jmle  script  supports  the options described below.  Both options
       without arguments and options with arguments simply set the  option  as
       indicated  by  the  description below. Multiple uses of the same option
       generally have no effect that is different than a single	 use  of  that
       option.

       For  the	 command  line, each option has both a short form and two long
       forms.  The long forms consists of one or two hyphens and a  word.   To
       avoid  duplication, we only show the long forms with two hyphens, since
       these are unambiguous; however one can use  the	forms  with  a	single
       hyphen  if  desired.   To  avoid	 ambiguity between multiple short form
       options and the long form with a single hyphen, one  should  give  each
       option  separately.   The  short form consists of a hyphen and a single
       letter.	In the synopsis below, the long form  is  separated  from  the
       short  form  by a comma (,), but in actual usage, you would pick one of
       these forms and not use the comma.

       Note that options on the command line are case sensitive.

       --debug, -c
	      Produces (copious) debugging information.	 The default is not to
	      produce  this  information.   Additionally,  when the executable
	      generated from the specification is run, a complete trace of all
	      constraint handling rules used in executing the specification is
	      printed.	The entire constraint store and the  bindings  of  all
	      logic variables are printed each time a constraint is considered
	      for simplification, so the trace can become quite large.

       jmle also inherits many of the options of  jmlc	.   For	 details,  see
       jmlc(1).

EXAMPLES
       The typical way to compile a specification for execution is as follows.

	      jmle Test.jml
       This produces Test.class, which can be treated as  ordinary  JVM	 byte-
       code.   That is, you can write, compile and run ordinary Java code that
       creates instances of class Test and uses those instances	 to  call  the
       methods of class Test.

       To  run	programs  compiled  with jmle you need to have various runtime
       classes in your CLASSPATH.  The jmlre(1) script provides a  way	to  do
       this automatically.  See its manual page for more details.

ENVIRONMENT
       The  CLASSPATH  environment  variable  is  used	to find Java class and
       source files, as well as JML specification files.

BUGS
       The jmle script sets the CLASSPATH environment variable, but  does  not
       look at any -classpath option that might be used.  If you use a -class-
       path option, then you must explicitly include paths to  the  jar	 files
       and directories that this script would have otherwise included.	On the
       other hand, this allows you to override the default orderings for  such
       jar files and directories.

SEE ALSO
       jmlre(1),  jmlc(1),  jmlrac(1), java(1), javadoc(1), jml(1), jmldoc(1),
       jmlunit(1), jtest(1)

REFERENCES
       [1] B. Krause and T. Wahls.  "jmle: A tool for Executing JML Specifica-
       tions via
	Constraint  Programming".   In	L.  Brim,  editor,  Formal Methods for
       Industrial
	Critical Systems (FMICS ’06), volume 4345 of Lecture Notes in Computer
       Science, pages 293 - 296.  Springer-Verlag, 2006.  http://users.dickin-
       son.edu/~wahlst/papers/tool.pdf

       [2] N. Catano and T. Wahls.  "Executing JML Specifications of Java Card
	Applications: A Case Study".  In preparation.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2001-2008 by Iowa State University

       JML  is	free  software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the terms of the GNU General Public License as published	 by  the  Free
       Software	 Foundation;  either  version 2, or (at your option) any later
       version.

       JML is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT  ANY
       WARRANTY;  without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FIT-
       NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License  for
       more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with JML; see the file COPYING.	If not, write  to  the	Free  Software
       Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



4th Berkeley Distribution$Date: 2008/04/18 18:20:42 $		       JMLE(l)
